The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Transient Lake, by Luis Senarens

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Transient Lake

Author: Luis Senarens

Release Date: September 16, 2017 [EBook #55556]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TRANSIENT LAKE ***




Produced by Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)






[Illustration: FRANK READE WEEKLY MAGAZINE Containing Stories of
Adventures on Land, Sea & in the Air]

  _Issued Weekly—By Subscription $2.50 per year. Application made for
               Second-Class Entry at N. Y. Post Office._
 No. 73.               NEW YORK, MARCH 18, 1904.         Price 5 Cents.

[Illustration: THE TRANSIENT LAKE; OR FRANK READE, JR’S ADVENTURES IN A
MYSTERIOUS COUNTRY. “BY NONAME”]

                  He swung to and fro over the chasm,
                       liable at any moment to be
                   precipitated to an awful death. It
                   required but a moment for Frank to
                   recognize the unfortunate man. It
                           was Barney O’Shea.

                               FRANK READE

                             WEEKLY MAGAZINE.

      CONTAINING STORIES OF ADVENTURES ON LAND, SEA AND IN THE AIR.

   _Issued Weekly—By Subscription $2.50 per year. Application made for
 Second Class entry at the New York, N. Y., Post Office Entered according
  to Act of Congress in the year 1904, in the office of the Librarian of
    Congress, Washington, D. C., by Frank Tousey, 24 Union Square, New
                                  York._

        No. 73      NEW YORK, MARCH 18, 1904.      Price 5 Cents.


                           THE TRANSIENT LAKE;

                                   OR,

          Frank Reade, Jr.’s Adventures in a Mysterious Country.

                               By “NONAME.”




                                CONTENTS


               CHAPTER    I. THE CAPTAIN’S STORY.
               CHAPTER   II. FRANK MAKES A DECISION.
               CHAPTER  III. IN THE ANDES.
               CHAPTER   IV. THE FIGHT WITH THE PUMA.
               CHAPTER    V. THE CAPTAIN’S DISAPPEARANCE.
               CHAPTER   VI. THE ANDEAN STORM.
               CHAPTER  VII. A STARTLING SURPRISE.
               CHAPTER VIII. THE ATTACK ON THE AIR-SHIP.
               CHAPTER   IX. A FUTILE QUEST.
               CHAPTER    X. A COMPROMISE.
               CHAPTER   XI. A TREACHEROUS GAME.
               CHAPTER  XII. THE END OF THE STORY.




                               CHAPTER I.
                          THE CAPTAIN’S STORY.


“Stranger than the tales of the Arabian Nights—indeed, almost
Munchausen-like in its seemingly improbable character is the tale I am
about to give you in truth,” said Captain Nicodemus Beere as he hitched
up his trowsers and shifted his quid.

Frank Reade, Jr., drew a deep, quick breath and looked keenly at his
visitor.

“That is a sweeping statement,” he declared; “but you are a truthful
man, Captain Beere, and of course you mean what you say.”

“I certainly do,” said the doughty captain in his most positive manner.
“What is more, I stand ready to furnish undisputed proof of it.”

The captain cleared his throat and began his story. But before we follow
him through its thread let us take a closer look at him.

It could be seen at a glance that he was a man much out of the ordinary.

In figure he was stout and well built, with fair features and a heavy,
full beard. His blue eyes twinkled with honesty but a certain
irascibility of temper peculiar to sea-faring men.

For many years he had sailed the seas and weathered many a hard voyage
in all quarters of the world. But two years previous he had retired with
the purpose of spending the rest of his days in ease and comfort on
shore.

He had been a warm friend of Frank Reade, Sr., long since passed away,
and when he heard of the success of Frank Reade, Jr., the son of the
famous inventor, he conceived the notion of paying him a visit.

Frank Reade, Jr., received him hospitably in his beautiful Readestown
home.

“My father’s friends are mine,” he declared. “I have often heard him
speak of you, Captain Beere.”

The captain visited the great machine shops of Frank Reade, Jr., and
inspected his various inventions. Among them the one which claimed his
deepest interest was the new air-ship, the Spectre.

And as he studied and admired it an idea came into his brain. He at once
was determined to broach it to the young inventor.

This idea was to be embodied in the tale which he now proposed to give
Frank, and with this explanation let us follow him.

“Ten years ago,” declared the captain, “I was master of as fine a ship
as ever rounded Cape Horn. We were south of Panama and somewhere off the
coast of Peru when a storm struck us.

“For four days and nights it roared and howled and bellowed. We were
buffeted and driven hither and thither, half the time running before the
wind. We could not tell where we were nor what would be the end of it
all. It seemed as if we must go to the bottom.

“On the fourth day the climax came. The foremast went by the board and
carried the maintop with it. Later the main also went and we were almost
dismasted. Moreover, the ship began to make water at a fearful rate.

“However, by working sharp we kept her afloat until the morning of the
fifth day, which broke clear and bright. On our weather bow we saw land.

“There was no hope of saving the ship, so we worked her down under a
jury rig until we found a good place to beach her. Then we went ashore
in a long-boat.

“It was a rough, wild coast, with terrible high cliffs and reaches of
sand. Of course we climbed the highest cliff to see what was about us.

“Westward was the sea. North and south the rough shore, but eastward was
a mountainous country with fearful mountain passes and gorges. There was
something weird and mystic about the whole region. But we knew that it
was death from starvation to stay by the shore, so we kept on looking
for signs of human settlement.

“Before we knew it we were deep in the heart of the strangest region any
of us had ever seen. Every cliff or precipice seemed to have the shape
of a fiend or a hobgoblin or an elf. The trees were fantastic in shape,
there were hideous plants and snake-like vines. At times we came to
sluggish streams and deep pools with strange, black depths, apparently
bottomless.

“The animals were of an unknown species. There were birds of a talking
species, yet unlike parrots. I cannot half describe to you the wonders
of this mysterious country.

“For months we wandered through it. Then we came upon the ruins of a
city and all the signs of a former civilization. We also discovered that
the mountains were haunted by a race of giants, wild barbarians, out of
whose way we took care to keep.

“After a time we came to a mighty inland sea or lake, the farther shore
of which was so far distant that we could not see it. By the shores of
this we sojourned many days.

“But one morning we arose to view a strange state of affairs. Where a
few hours before there had existed a mighty lake, we saw now naught but
a deep, rocky and sandy basin.

“The water had disappeared and hills and valleys lay in its place. It
was a mighty surprise to us. All sorts of theories were advanced.

“That some subterranean channel had opened and carried the water away
looked logical. Or perhaps a chasm or barrier at some far end had given
way, and the mighty volume had been diverted into another and lower
basin.

“Any or all of these theories looked plausible enough, and were accepted
without further question. We spent a number of days exploring the basin.
By some strange instinct we returned each night from the basin to our
camp. To this we owed our lives.

“One day while wandering about the basin, one of our party came upon a
curious object.

“It was a structure of rocks closely fitted together with cement. It was
half imbedded in a plain of sand. That it was the work of human hands
there could be no doubt.

“Of course we were all interested, for it showed that at some time other
human beings than ourselves had visited the spot. We at once began to
curiously examine the structure.

“This resulted in a thrilling discovery. It was undoubtedly hollow and
our first mate, Bill Langley, discovered a movable stone at its summit.
He displaced this, and a great cavity was revealed.

“Our first thought, of course, was that it was a tomb or burial place of
some extinct race. In looking into the place we would not have been
surprised to have come across a heap of old bones or other such
evidence.

“But what we did see was far different. Bill leaned over the aperture a
while and rubbed his eyes repeatedly. Then he slid down, and said:

“’By jingo, mates! I’m a gallivantin’ old shark, if there ain’t a heap
of gold in that ere place!’

“’Gold!’ I exclaimed.

“’With submission, sir!’

“’You are dreaming, man!’ I exclaimed somewhat excited. ’Do you mean
it?’

“’Every word, skipper,’ replied Bill, solemnly. And I saw that he meant
just what he said.

“This was enough for me. So I climbed upon the mound and looked in also.
Something bright and yellow struck my gaze. I gave a gasp and then I
cried:

“’Give me a rope, mates. Steady me while I go down there!’

“And with a rope around my waist I slid down into the mound. It did not
require but a few moments to satisfy me that we had discovered buried
treasure.

“Yes, sir, gold! Yellow, glittering stuff, enough to make us all
millionaires. I own that I was near crazy at the time. There it lay in
bars and ingots. All that was left was to take it away to civilization.

“I crawled out of the mound and then we all sat down and discussed the
matter. There were fifteen of us.

“Bill Langley proposed a fair division. Of course this was satisfactory.
Then it was decided to take the gold out of the mound.

“The gold fever was upon us; we worked like badgers at it. In a few
hours we had a heap of the stuff piled up beside the mound. Then
nightfall began to threaten. We suspended work, and it was decided not
to return to camp, but remain on the spot until morning. There was not
the remotest chance of anybody’s purloining the gold, yet all wanted to
stay there.

“However, much of our necessary utensils were at the old camp. It was
about three miles distant. At length Bill Langley and I decided to
return for them and come back in the morning.

“So we set out for the old camp, and reached there an hour later, much
fatigued. We lit a fire and sat down by it; but we could not sleep.

“All we could do was to talk about the treasure and what golden plans we
could lay for the future. Midnight came and passed.

“Then I began to feel a bit drowsy, and suggested turning in; but the
words hadn’t left my lips when Bill gave a quick start.

“’Great gunnels, mate!’ he exclaimed; ’what in the Old Harry was that?’

“The same sound came to my ears. It was a distant, monotonous boom like
rolling thunder. The ground actually shook under our feet.

“Only once had I heard a similar frightful sound, and that was once
during an earthquake in Panama. But was this an earthquake?

“We sprang to our feet. Bill picked up a fire brand and held it high.
But we could see nothing but a few faint stars overhead. It was the
blackest kind of a night.

“For a space of thirty minutes the same dull roaring and trembling
continued. Then came a dead silence.

“We had about given up interest in the matter, thinking it some
inexplicable phenomenon of a tropical clime, when a sudden, startling
thing happened.

“A terrific boom, and a swirling, rushing mass came whooping down
through the lake basin. The next moment we were picked up as if in giant
arms and carried clean to the summit of the eminence beyond us, and
there we clung to palm trees, wet as drowned rats.”




                              CHAPTER II.
                        FRANK MAKES A DECISION.


The captain shifted his quid again and then smiled at the earnest look
in Frank’s eyes. The young inventor was intensely interested.

“How did we get wet?” interrogated the captain. “Water of course. It was
all before us. It had come down upon us with the force of a hurricane.

“We waited where we were until the light of day came. Then we beheld an
appalling scene. A mighty expanse of water lay before us.

“The lake had come back. The basin was full of water. Evidently it had a
trick of doing this. That it was of the transient kind there was no
doubt.

“I won’t attempt any theorizing or explanation of the phenomenon. I
describe it to you just as it occurred. That is all. You’ll have to
guess the rest.

“What of our shipmates and the gold? I don’t know. We never saw them
again. We could do nothing but push on to the northward. For months we
wandered until we came to a great river leading down to the Paraguay.
Thence we made our way to Parana and shipped home. This is my story.”

Frank drew a deep breath.

For a moment after the captain had finished he could not speak. At
length he managed to say:

“You think the gold is still at the bottom of that lake?”

“Yes.”

“And that the lake is transient, or has spells of changing its basin?”

“Just so, mate!”

Frank was thoughtful for a moment. Finally he said:

“Do you think it would be easy to find that locality again?”

“Oh, there’s the rub,” said Beere, rubbing his hands; “in my lifetime I
have made six attempts and failed. But, of course, we traveled
overland.”

The same thought came to each.

“Then you think the air-ship—on account of a better view of the earth,
could locate it?”

“I do,” replied Nicodemus. “Now you have the whole thing in a nutshell,
Frank. The moment I looked at your air-ship, I saw a possible way to
visit the mysterious country and locate the Transient Lake.”

Frank Reade, Jr., seemed for a moment in a glow. His eyes shone like
blazing stars, and his manner was all eagerness.

“By Jove, you have done it, Captain Nicodemus!” he declared. “I have
been trying to decide upon a new trip with the Spectre, and to visit the
Transient Lake is just the thing. It promises eager anticipation,
excitement and thrilling adventure.”

The captain leaned over the table.

“You will go?” he asked, tensely.

“Yes,” replied Frank.

“And—will you allow me to go with you?”

“I would not think of going without you!” declared Frank.

“Thank you! I had quit the sea, and never thought to take another
voyage. But a cruise in the air—that’s different, mate. When shall I
report?”

“We will start within a week,” declared Frank; “it will not take long to
get things in readiness. I will have Barney and Pomp put stores on board
at once.”

We will not dwell upon the further conversation which followed. Suffice
it to say that before the old captain left Readestown all arrangements
were made.

Barney O’Shea was a jolly Irish boy, who had been long in the employ of
Frank Reade, Jr. Pomp was a negro valet who was as devoted to Frank as
man could be.

Wherever Frank traveled these two faithful chaps accompanied him.

Frank’s first move after the departure of Captain Nicodemus was to ring
a bell. Instantly it was answered by Barney.

The Celt stood in the doorway and ducked his red head in response to
Frank’s call.

“Shure, here I am, sor!” he declared.

“Where is Pomp?” asked Frank.

The Celt gave a queer little whistle. Almost instantly a comical little
darky appeared beside him.

“Here I is, sah!” he said, with a scrape and a grin.

“Well, you jolly rascals,” said Frank, with a laugh. “I have some good
news for you.”

“Golly, Marse Frank, wha’ am it?”

“Bejabers, it’s glad we are to hear that, sor!”

“Well,” said Frank, quickly, “I want you to have the Spectre ready for a
quick departure. We are bound for a cruise to South America.”

Barney threw a handspring, and Pomp cut a pigeon-wing.

“Hi, hi!” cried the darky; “dat am jes’ too good news fo’ anyfing!”

“Be me sowl, I’m deloighted!”

“Put provisions aboard the Spectre at once,” ordered Frank. “See that
she is completely equipped for a long cruise. You know what to do.”

Away scampered the two jolly fellows. So high were their spirits that
they bubbled over, and before the yard of the machine works was crossed
they fell to wrestling with each other.

“Hi, hi, chile!” sputtered Pomp, getting a grapevine on the Celt; “I kin
trow yo’ jes’ as easy as yo’ like. Look out dar fo’ squalls!”

“Not much, me friend,” retorted Barney, securing an elbow lock.
“One—two—three—an’ over yez go!”

They rolled around the yard for somewhile like a couple of monkeys.
Neither desisted until they were completely exhausted; then each sped
away to do Frank’s bidding.

“I git square wif yo’ yet, yo’ no ’count I’ishman,” cried Pomp.

“Yez aren’t the soize,” retorted Barney.

In the great, high-roofed storehouse the Spectre rested upon her stocks.

She was a marvel of beauty and symmetry. Her lines were somewhat like
those of a government cruiser, yet more narrow of beam and slender.

The hull was of thinly rolled composition of aluminum and steel to
insure lightness and make it impervious to a bullet. The hull was
pierced just below the rail with a number of dead-eye windows, which
admitted light to the hold.

Above the deck there arose two cabins. The forward cabin was richly
furnished, and contained the dining saloon and the living quarters of
the ship’s company.

The after cabin contained the staterooms and berths. It was provided
with dead-eye windows, and could be made airtight in the event of the
air-ship ascending into the rarefied atmosphere above the clouds, where
human life could not be supported.

Forward was the pilot-house, a dome-shaped structure with heavy plate
glass windows. In this were the steering gear and electric keyboard,
with all nautical and scientific instruments suitable for navigation in
the air.

The propelling power of the air-ship was furnished by electric motors
placed in the hold. These drove a huge fan propeller at the stern.

Also they drove the four powerful helices placed upon revolving masts
above the deck. These furnished the lifting power of the air-ship, which
was most tremendous.

Everything about the Spectre was ship-shape and elegant, from the
polished brass-work to the silver-bladed helices and shiny steel masts.
It was a marvel of beauty and grace and appointment.

Having said this much we will close this brief and incomplete
description of the great air-ship, leaving the reader to gather a more
correct impression from the accurate representation of the artist.

A few evenings thereafter Frank received the following telegram from
Captain Nicodemus:

                  *       *       *       *       *

“Dear Frank—Am all ready for the start. Shall I come to Readestown or
will you stop for me at New Orleans, where I am at present? Wire me.

                                         “Yours,       NICODEMUS BEERE.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

Frank at once answered that he would pick the captain up at New Orleans
on the way to the Gulf. Then he hastened preparations for the start.

It was not long before the air-ship was rolled out into the great yard
and was all ready for the start.

Then the people of Readestown rose en masse to give their distinguished
fellow-citizen an ovation and a grand farewell to speed him on his
journey.

The fame of the undertaking had traveled far and wide and from every
part of the country people flocked to Readestown.

Their curiosity was most powerful to see the man who had mastered so
easily the great problem of aerial navigation.

Frank was obliged to decline all invitations to events given in his
honor. His full time was occupied in preparations for the start.

And at last all was ready.

Frank wired Beere at New Orleans and then went aboard the air-ship.
Barney and Pomp accompanied him.

It was a beautiful August morning. A mighty crowd thronged the streets
of Readestown to get a look at the air-ship as it mounted in the air.

None of them were disappointed.

Exactly at the hour named the Spectre leaped upward into the clouds. The
people cheered and the bands played and cannon roared. And away sailed
the Spectre.

Into space she sped, every moment growing smaller, until soon she was
lost to sight altogether.

The great journey was begun.

The voyagers were destined to meet with many thrilling adventures ere
they should see home again. What these were it will be our duty to
chronicle.

“Begorra, she sails foine!” said Barney with delight, as he trimmed the
course of the air-ship a bit; “she’ll niver be beat, Misther Frank!”

“I think myself that she sails well,” said the critical young inventor.
“I shall not try to beat her this year.”

“Golly, Marse Frank, yo’ don’t hab no need ter,” declared Pomp; “she am
good fo’ a long voyage, sah!”

“Begorra, phwere is it we will be afther meetin’ the other man?” asked
Barney.

“At New Orleans,” replied Frank.

“An’ how far is that, sor?”

“About a thousand miles. We will make it in two days easy enough.”

“It is on our course, sor?”

“Yes.”

The air-ship sailed on over a mighty panorama of mountain and valley,
hill and plain, lake and forest and river. Great cities alternated with
little towns. It was a mighty spectacle from the air-ship’s deck.




                              CHAPTER III.
                             IN THE ANDES.


“Be me sowl, it’s a big country Ameriky is!” declared Barney, as he
glanced over the rail. “Shure, it’ll take a heap av foightin’ to iver
conquer her!”

“The days of national conquest are over, I guess,” said Frank. “At least
I hope so. That is a custom relegated to the dark ages.”

“Hard luck fer ould Oireland,” declared the Celt; “shure av it was
to-day she was free, England wud niver conquer her thin.”

“Golly! yo’ might borrow dis air-ship from Marse Frank an’ set yo’
island free if yo’ wanted to,” declared Pomp; “shuah, yo’ cud blow up de
hull lot ob dem Britishers.”

Barney’s eyes blazed.

“Bejabers, it’s no more thin they desarve, bad cess to thim,” he
declared. “Shure, they’ve had their feet on sufferin’ Oireland’s neck
long enuff.”

And so Barney continued to dilate upon the wrongs, real and fancied, of
his native isle. He kept on until Pomp began to guy him.

Then he got angry.

“Huh!” cried the darky, “if yo’ people was set free dey nebber cud
govern demselves! Shuah dey wud be eatin’ each other up fo’ a fac’!”

“Phwat’s that yez say?” blustered Barney, angrily; “don’t yez cast no
aspersions on the ould sod, yez black pickaninny! Shure yez own people
wud niver have got free av it hadn’t been fer Gineral Lincoln!”

“Dat shows all yo’ know ’bout fings,” sniffed Pomp; “dar warn’t no sich
man as Gineral Linkum.”

“Hey! phwat’s that, naygur? Don’t yez give me de lie!”

“Huh! Linkum warn’t no gineral, sah! He was de President, I’d hab yo’
know, sah!”

Barney elevated his nose contemptuously.

“Be me sowl it’s mighty little yez know onyway. An’ ain’t the President
commander-in-chief av the army an’ navy? An’ don’t that make him the
bigges’ gineral in the land?”

Pomp saw the point and wilted. He slunk into the galley, muttering:

“I jes’ fix dat I’ishman fo’ pretendin’ to know so much. I jes’ hab a
dose ready fo’ him yet!”

What this was we must wait for a later hour to decide. For the present
we will consider nearer incidents.

In due course New Orleans was sighted. The air-ship hung over the
southern city.

Frank looked for a certain signal, which he saw finally upon the roof of
one of the houses.

It was a yellow flag.

At once the air-ship bore down upon it and soon descended within fifty
feet of the roof. Up through a skylight popped Captain Nicodemus.

“Ahoy the ship!” he cried.

“Ahoy!” replied Frank.

“I am ready to come aboard. Throw out your gangway!”

“Is that roof strong enough to bear the weight of the air-ship?” asked
Frank.

“Surely, mate! Come down.”

“All right!”

Frank let the air-ship descend and rest upon the roof of the building.
Then he sprang down and shook hands with the captain.

Nicodemus was delighted.

He was all equipped for the trip.

But his personal appearance was startling as well as amusing in the
extreme.

The old captain had got himself up in the style of the privateer captain
of forty or fifty years previous. He wore fancy high boots, clinging
cutlass, pistols in belt, a velvet blouse and pea-jacket.

He looked as if equipped for a privateering or piratical cruise, and
Frank could not help a smile.

“You look as if you expected trouble,” he exclaimed. “Why have you armed
yourself?”

“Hang me high!” cried the captain, fiercely; “are we not going into a
land full of sharks and cuttlefish? Keep your eye on your outfit, lad.
We will need a little powder and ball and cold steel before we get
home.”

“Well,” said Frank, “you may be right; but I never employ arms until the
necessary time comes. You are taking time by the forelock.”

“Which is correct, skipper. I once knew a fair ship to become overrun
with pirates out in the Maldives, just because the skipper would not
carry powder for fear of blowing up the ship. He had an aversion to the
smell.”

Frank could not but laugh.

“Well,” he agreed, “you may be right. However, this air-ship is an
adjunct of Liberty Hall, so that you are all right. Keep your eye out
for sharks.”

“Depend on it, skipper. But will we wait long at this port?”

“Not another moment,” declared Frank; “let us be off at once.”

He made a motion to Barney and the air-ship left the roof. As it soared
aloft, the streets below were seen to be crowded with curious people
craning their necks.

Soon the Spectre was sailing over the jetties and the delta of the
Mississippi, and beyond were seen the waters of the Gulf.

Captain Nicodemus walked the deck of the air-ship, completely in his
element.

He sniffed the air and leveled his long glass at the distant horizon.

“This beats ocean navigation all to pieces,” he declared. “There’s
nothing like an air-ship.”

“Then you like it better than the sea?” asked Frank.

“Why not, skipper? In the first place, you can sail faster. You are
surer of making port on time. There’s no sails to furl or set. It’s
handsome sailing, and no care for the wind.”

Frank saw the old captain’s logic, and was inclined to agree with him.

“You are right, captain,” he said. “Aerial navigation beats all else.
But looking into the future, what shall we make a bee line for when we
get across this gulf?”

“For the Andes of Peru, then follow on down their eastern slope. I think
by so doing we shall come to the mysterious country.”

“Very good. But how will you identify the Transient Lake if the water is
all out of it?”

“Trust me for that, skipper, I could never fail to locate it. I hope the
water is out of it?”

“Why?”

“We could then easily follow the basin’s course and find the gold.”

“I can see. Well, keep a sharp outlook when we reach the Andes. I shall
strike across the Caribbean Sea for the mountains of Peru.”

“Good! I feel sure of success!”

The air-ship swept on southward. In due time the coast of Cuba hove into
view.

Upon its western end was Cape San Antonio. Frank passed directly over
this and entered upon the Caribbean Sea.

It was evident now that they were well into the tropics. The air was
balmy and the sea limpid and still.

When the coast of Colombia came into view the exciting period seemed to
have been reached. Beyond all knew that the land of wild adventure lay.

On sailed the Spectre.

Over the coast it passed and into the interior of Colombia. The scenery
was grand, and of the typical sort peculiar to South America.

And still the Spectre kept on until great dreamy-looking peaks rose from
the western horizon.

“The Andes!”

All crowded to the rail, and with thrilling veins regarded the range of
wonderful mountains, in fact, the most wonderful in the world.

The Andes of Peru upon the eastern slope are peculiarly rough and
picturesque.

It was in these mighty fastnesses that the ancient Incas had built their
temples and held their own in battle with the lawless Spaniard, until
their wealth, their glory and their prestige was forever lost to them.

Mighty Sarata with its altitude of 21,286 feet, gigantic Illimani with
its 21,000 feet, the great volcano of Guallatieri with 22,000 feet,
Titicaca, Vilcanata, Misti and all the monarchs of that awful
aggregation of peaks, than which the world has no superior, were all
about the air-ship.

Gliding from one fleecy cloud to another, the jagged heights in their
solemn grandeur were visible only at intervals. Captain Beere could
hardly contain himself.

“By the horn spoon!” he cried. “When you can find anything to equal
this, I’ll like to know where it can be. Is it not powerful, mates?”

“Indeed it is!” replied Frank.

All of the voyagers wore a face mask, an invention of Frank Reade,
Jr.’s, for use in high altitudes to prevent bleeding of the respiratory
organs or faintness. It was impregnated with a chemical, which, placed
in a light porous sponge at the nostrils, was a sure remedy.

So that they were enabled to travel with impunity in that high
atmosphere.

“I have heard great reports of the malady encountered in the high Andes,
known as the mountain sickness,” said Nicodemus; “it don’t seem to
trouble us as yet, Frank.”

“That is easily understood,” said the young inventor; “we are in the
air, and consequently do not feel the pressure as we would if we stood
on the mountain summit or terra firma. The buoyancy of the air-ship
overcomes that peculiar pressure which causes the so-called mountain
sickness.”

The air-ship sailed on slowly among the great peaks. It was a wonderful
spectacle.

But the aerial voyagers soon tired of it, and Frank finally asked:

“What do you think, Nicodemus? Is the mysterious country south of us?”

“I think so, skipper,” replied the captain. “We kept a pretty straight
line eastward to the head waters of the Paraguay River; we ought to find
the Transient Lake somewhere south of us.”

“We will keep on then in that direction,” said Frank. “Heigho! What is
that?”

The air-ship gave a sudden mad plunge forward. There was a terrific
explosion in the distance like the boom of a hundred great guns.

It was the wave of air coming from that direction which had given the
motion to the Spectre. But this was not all.

From a cloud just above the air-ship blazing balls of fire suddenly shot
downward.

A tremendous crash ensued on the air-ship’s deck, and she reeled and
shot downward.




                              CHAPTER IV.
                        THE FIGHT WITH THE PUMA.


The air-ship was falling.

For a moment horror was upon all in the little party. It was a terrible
realization, for below, thousands of feet, they might be dashed to atoms
upon jagged ledges.

A powerful missile had fallen from the cloud and struck full and fair in
the air-ship’s bow. The shock had thrown open the pilot-house door.

The helices had ceased to revolve but slowly and the air-ship was
floating downward with speed. For one awful second the aerial voyagers
knew not what move to make.

Then Frank Reade, Jr., acted.

Quick as a flash he sprang into the pilot-house. Barney, who was at the
wheel, had been knocked half senseless to the deck.

One glance told Frank the truth. The shock of the falling missile had
caused the helix lever to fly shut and had shut off the electric
current. This had checked the speed of the helices and allowed the
air-ship to fall.

With one leap Frank reached the keyboard.

He turned the lever swiftly and to his horror found that it was bent.
However, the downward speed of the ship was materially checked.

The next moment there was a shock and she rested upon the ground. Then
Frank shut off the current entirely.

He sprang out of the pilot-house and glanced about to see that they were
resting safely upon a broad expanse of ledge on the mountain side.

Below them sloped the mountain for miles into green valleys. The danger
was over.

“Be me sowl!” gasped Barney, as he crawled to his feet; “phwat the divil
was it that was afther hitting me? Shure it med me dizzy the while.”

“Hang me high!” roared Nicodemus, “I thought our bones were spoiled for
that! How did we escape?”

“It was a close call,” said Frank.

“Golly! Wha’ was dat struck us?” interrogated Pomp.

“We’ll find out!” said Frank, as he advanced to the bow.

And there the cause of the mischief was found. This was in the shape of
a huge fragment of volcanic rock which had cut its way half through the
deck plates, and was so firmly imbedded that it required great strength
to dislodge it.

This was only one of the score or more aerolites which had fallen from
the sky.

That they might have been hurled aloft from the distant volcano there
was a strong likelihood. That no worse damage was done was fortunate.

The air-ship rested safely enough upon the ledge of rock. Frank
proceeded at once to repair the injury.

While he was working at the keyboard, Nicodemus and Barney bethought
themselves that it was a good opportunity for an exploring tour over the
ledges.

So they took their rifles and climbed over the rail. They had descended
to an altitude now where the air was not so rare, or there was little
danger of the deadly mountain sickness.

They had spied some mountain goats and the captain was anxious to get a
shot at them.

So they proceeded some distance down the mountain side until the
air-ship was lost to sight. The view at this point was very grand.

Far below there were great slopes of green, alternating with shelving
rock. In the vista beyond a mighty green valley extended to the base of
other mountains seventy or eighty miles away.

Such scenery could hardly be eclipsed anywhere else in the world. The
two men could not help but gaze upon it with wonderment.

“Be me sowl,” averred Barney, “it’s a long way down there.”

“That is true,” agreed Nicodemus. “I wouldn’t care to walk it.
But—hello! what is that?”

The captain came to a sudden halt, and raised his gun with one finger
ready on the trigger.

There was good cause for this. Along the mountain wall there was
creeping toward them a huge black form flattened against the ledges.

It required but a glance for the captain to recognize the deadly foe of
the South American traveler, the puma, or mountain lion.

The creature was bent upon attacking them, as could be readily seen. It
was a moment of peril.

“Separate!” said the captain sharply, moving to the right. “Keep your
eyes open, Barney!”

“All roight, sor!”

This movement seemed for a moment to disconcert the puma. It seemed in a
quandary as to what direction to take.

Finally it moved toward Barney. The Celt got behind a bowlder.

He held his rifle ready for use, and his shock of red hair stood
literally on end.

“Be me sowl!” he muttered, “av the vilyun gets his clutches on me, shure
it’s lost I am! I’m afther thinkin’ I’ll niver give him that chance.”

Captain Nicodemus, meanwhile, had been getting a line on the beast.

“Steady, Barney!” he cried. “I’ll give him a shot. If he turns for me
you give him another!”

“All roight, sor!”

Nicodemus drew straight and careful aim. Then he pulled the trigger.

Crack!

Where the bullet struck the puma it was not easy to say. But the animal
gave a quick snarling cry and wheeled about.

He raised himself a trifle from the ground. It was Barney’s chance.

“Bad cess to ye!” he muttered, and drew quick aim.

Crack!

Another bullet struck the puma. But the animal had already made its
spring. Straight for the covert of its human foe it shot.

Captain Nicodemus saw that his life hung in the balance. He did not
shirk the responsibility.

It was a momentous occasion.

He raised himself and took cool and steady aim. If his bullet hit the
mark he would stop the beast. If not—then the worst might happen.

It was a moment of brief suspense. All his nerves were on the qui vive.
Then he fired.

Crack-ack!

Two reports blended in one, for Barney fired at the same moment. One
moment the puma was in mid-air, then fell, turning a dozen somersaults.

When it ceased its terrific death struggle the two hunters ventured to
approach it. A more ferocious beast could not be imagined.

“Egad!” exclaimed Nicodemus, as he placed fresh cartridges in his rifle,
“the beast gave us quite a tussle. We’re in high luck!”

“Begorra, I believe yez, sor!” agreed Barney. “I niver was more skeered
in me loife. One moment I thought it was me the omadhoun was after, then
I thought it was yesilf.”

The captain laughed and kicked the body of the dead lion.

“I’ve half a mind to take his skin!” he said, “but I don’t believe it
would pay. On my word, I think I see a mountain antelope yonder. Let us
try for him!”

Both hunters started to creep up the mountain side. Upon a distant spur
of rock, sure enough, there stood a goat.

Nearer they crept. It was necessary to proceed with the greatest
caution. These mountain goats were shrewd and exceedingly wary.

But it did not spy its human foes, however, until they were within
gunshot. Then both fired.

One or more of the bullets hit the mark, for the goat gave a spring in
the air and fell.

It came sliding and rolling down the mountain side, and fell almost at
the feet of the hunters. In a moment its carcass was secured.

Nicodemus was well satisfied.

The object of the expedition had been accomplished, and he did not care
to go further. The goat was slung over his shoulders, and he proposed to
return to the air-ship.

This, however, was speedily discovered to be not such an easy matter.
They had wandered far and somehow lost their bearings.

The region had all a peculiar sameness. It was some while before Barney
was able to decide the direction from which they had come.

But the points of the compass were finally settled, and they set out
upon the return. But though they journeyed on for an hour, no sign of
the air-ship was seen.

Finally they were brought to a halt by a deep chasm, with sides too
precipitous to descend. Here they were forced to come to a dismayed
halt.

“By whales!” exclaimed Nicodemus Beere, “here’s a pretty how d’ye do!
Where are we, Barney? Do ye know?”

“Be me sowl, it’s sthuck I am intoirely,” replied the Celt. “Shure, I
thought we was going roight all the while.”

“Well, it’s plain that we were not,” replied the captain. “We must make
a back course or we’ll be lost.”

“On me wurrud I belave it’s lost we are already,” declared Barney.
“Shure, I don’t know phwere I am.”

Captain Nicodemus was in a most uncomfortable frame of mind. He stormed
up and down the ledges excitedly.

“This is a fine mess!” he scolded. “What is going to be the result?
Darkness is coming on, and we will have to spend the night here. We will
stand a chance of being eaten up by wild beasts.”

“Och hone!” gasped Barney, “do yez mean that, sor! It’s bad luck fer us,
to be shure.”

Once again they set out along the mountain side.

But again their quest was in vain. Each forgot that they had ascended
the mountain some distance in quest of goats and that the air-ship
consequently must be just below them.

Nightfall was coming on rapidly. Finally they abandoned all idea of
finding the air-ship. It was decided that they must spend the night
there.

So they fell hastily to collecting fagots to make a fire.

Soon they had a large pile of them ready to light. They knew that fire
would keep wild beasts at bay, and this was their safeguard.

Under the shadow of a huge ledge they made their camp and waited for
daylight to come again. There was no sleep for either that night. They
could only wait the dawn.




                               CHAPTER V.
                      THE CAPTAIN’S DISAPPEARANCE.


Meanwhile Frank had finished his repairing in the pilot-house and began
to arrange for resuming the journey once more.

He kept a lookout for Barney and the captain.

But for some inexplicable reason they did not seem to show up. Soon
twilight came.

“That is queer,” he muttered, “they are making a long trip. It is time
that they should return.”

“Dat am a fac’, sah,” averred Pomp; “reckon dat wild I’ishman hab led
dem away somewhere.”

Frank fretted and fumed for a long time. Certainly they had ought to be
on hand by this time.

Darkness came. Then he made up his mind that something was wrong.

Either something had befallen them or they were lost. He credited the
latter assumption.

The air-ship was lit-up by the electric lamps and until a late hour
watch was kept. Then Frank went into the pilot-house.

“We have got to go to their rescue,” he said.

“Golly, Marse Frank!” exclaimed Pomp, “how we know whar to look fo’
dem?”

“We must do the best we can,” said Frank. “You stand by the searchlight,
Pomp, and shoot its rays everywhere through the mountains. I will manage
the wheel.”

Pomp proceeded to obey orders. The air-ship rose, and while Frank sent
it along the mountain side Pomp operated the searchlight.

And here was where the two searchers got off the track. As fate had it,
Frank took the opposite direction, and, misled by an angle in the
mountain, passed directly around to the other side.

Here he followed the mountain wall in all directions. The result was
that he kept moving further and further from the spot where Barney and
the captain were in hiding from the dreaded wild beasts.

All night long the young inventor kept up the futile quest.

When daylight came he and Pomp were so thoroughly worn out that it was
decided to abandon the quest for a few hours of needed rest.

Accordingly the air-ship descended and rested upon a small shelf of rock
jutting out from the mountain side. Then Frank cast himself upon his
couch and fell asleep.

Pomp remained on guard for a couple of hours. Then he was relieved by
Frank. The darky turned in for much needed rest.

Frank could not remain idle.

He sent the air-ship aloft and now saw his error of the night. He had
sailed completely around the mountain peak and had been searching the
wrong side of it all the while.

“Egad!” he muttered, “it is no wonder that I did not find them. I hope
they are yet safe. Remaining out all night on these mountains is no
joking matter.”

He hastened to drive the air-ship around to the opposite side of the
peak again. As he did so the Spectre hung for a moment over a deep chasm
thousands of feet in depth.

Involuntarily Frank glanced down into the chasm, and then gave a great
cry of astonishment and alarm.

Far down in these awful depths he witnessed a thrilling scene.

A man hung over the fearful verge by the roots of a clinging vine.

It was knotted about his body, and he swung to and fro over the verge,
liable at any moment to be precipitated to an awful death.

It required but a moment for Frank to recognize the unfortunate man. It
was Barney O’Shea.

The Celt’s face was deadly pale and streaked with blood. His clothing
was torn, and his appearance that of one who had experienced a hard
battle.

As he saw the air-ship above him he waved his arm feebly. Frank answered
the signal.

Then he allowed the Spectre to sink down into the chasm. It was quickly
close by the Celt, and Frank threw a noosed rope over the rail.

“Barney,” he cried, “what does this mean? How came you in this
position?”

“Shure, sor, I had a fight with a panther,” replied the Irishman. “We
wint over the edge wid so much strugglin’, and I caught by luck in these
vines. The crayter is dead at the bottom av this place.”

“You have been preserved by Providence,” declared Frank; “but where is
the captain?”

“Shure, sor, yez have the best av me there,” replied Barney. “We
siperated about midnight, an’ I’ve niver seen him since.”

In a few moments Barney was drawn aboard the air-ship, and then he told
his story.

It was a thrilling one.

It seemed that he had fallen asleep at the little camp-fire under the
shelf or rock, where he and the captain had hoped to spend the night
safely.

Suddenly he was awakened by a terrific screech, and in trying to gain
his feet a monster panther had pounced upon him.

He made a desperate fight with his knife, but the animal dragged him a
long ways over the rough ground. Then, as Barney made a fresh battle
with the beast, they had rolled over the precipice, with what result we
already know.

This was all that the Celt could tell. What had become of the captain he
could not say. It was a puzzling matter.

However, Frank proposed that they should return to the spot where the
camp had been made and look for some sign of the missing mariner.

It was easy to follow the trail over the rocks which was marked with
Barney’s blood.

Then they came upon the camp. It presented only a few burned fagots and
a heap of ashes.

Nicodemus was gone. He had left no visible trail.

This was strange enough.

Pomp had now come on deck and assisted Frank and Barney. But not the
slightest clew could be found.

There were various hypotheses to be advanced. It was possible that the
captain, being suddenly awakened by the appearance of the panther, had
taken fright and incontinently fled. That in the darkness he had lost
his way and was somewhere in the region aimlessly wandering about.

It was not at all likely that he had been killed, devoured, or dragged
away by any wild beast as had Barney, else some trace would have been
left behind.

A deeper mystery could hardly be imagined. But there was no time to
lose.

The air-ship proceeded to skirt the mountain side, and every cranny and
nook was explored.

But yet no sign of the lost captain was found. The day wore on and it
began to look as if another night would be passed in the vicinity.

“Shure it’s very quare,” declared Barney. “I don’t see phwat he should
go away for at all for whin the baste was afther me instid av himsilf.”

“It was not like the captain,” declared Frank, “he would rather have
paused to give you aid.”

“So I should think, sor. It’s moighty quare indade.”

But at the eleventh hour the mystery was solved. The air-ship dropped
down the side of the peak a short distance, and this brought into view a
long jagged spur of rock which shot out from the mountain wall and hung
over an abyss thousands of feet deep.

And upon the very extremity of this there was seen the figure of a man.
He waved his arms as the air-ship approached.

“By Jupiter!” exclaimed Frank, “that is Beere. How did he get out
there?”

Indeed, this question might well be asked. It was not an easy one to
answer.

It seemed almost incredible that a man could climb so far out on that
awful pinnacle of rock. And once there, return was clearly impossible.

So it could be seen that the captain’s plight was a fearful one. But the
air-ship sailed down upon him.

“Heigho!” shouted Frank. “What are you doing down there, captain?”

“That’s what I’ve been asking myself, mate,” replied the mariner, “give
me a lift before I fall.”

“All right!”

Frank lowered the same rope with which he had hauled Barney up.

In a few moments the captain was safe on the air-ship’s deck.

His story was a remarkable one.

“How did I get there?” he exclaimed. “I couldn’t tell ye. I only know
that I went to sleep in the little camp with Barney. When I woke up I
was hanging on out there.”

“Somnambulism!” suggested Frank.

“I reckon so; I am subject to that. Sure to walk in my sleep if I go to
bed with too much on my mind.”

“Whew!” exclaimed Frank. “You are hardly a safe man aboard an air-ship
then.”

“I reckon not. But—how did you make out, Barney?”

The captain was astonished when he heard the account of Barney’s
adventures. He had seen nothing of the panther, nor had he any
recollection of anything until he came out of his sleep to find himself
on the projecting spur of rock.

However, the affair was ended, and all were safe again aboard the
Spectre, which was a matter for congratulation; so Frank at once
proceeded to again direct the course of the air-ship.

Down among the valleys now the air-ship sailed. The country, however,
was wild and unsettled, though the scattered villages of a few Indian
natives were seen.

“It’s about time for us to get a look at the region about the Transient
Lake,” declared Nicodemus.

“Can you see anything familiar about this region?” asked Frank.

“Yes,” replied the old mariner. “Yonder is the range of hills where the
Paraguay River rises, if my eyesight does not fail me. On the other side
of them we first found human beings.”

“Well,” said Frank reflectively, “we don’t want to go there.”

“No,” replied the captain; “steer west by south. I think that is our
best course.”

The words were scarcely spoken when a great cry came from Barney and
Pomp, who were aft. Frank and Nicodemus turned to behold an appalling
spectacle.




                              CHAPTER VI.
                           THE ANDEAN STORM.


West of them there was a deep and narrow gorge between high mountains.
Down through this with the speed of a race horse there came a tumbling
funnel-shaped cloud.

So swift did it come and so unexpected was it, that the voyagers were
wholly unprepared and taken by surprise.

But in that swift instant all realized what it meant.

A storm in the Andes is a terrible affair. Darting among the great peaks
it sweeps with cyclonic fury through the valleys, carrying destruction
in its path until its force is spent.

Such was now swooping down upon the air-ship like a mighty bird of prey.

There was no time to get out of the way to make any change in course.
Barney and Pomp sprang into the forward cabin, shutting the door behind
them.

Frank and the captain leaped into the pilot-house.

They were not a moment too soon.

The storm struck the air-ship like a thunderbolt. What saved it from
being totally destroyed was a literal wonder.

It was utterly impossible for any of the voyagers to recall what
transpired in that period while the air-ship was in the clutches of the
hurricane.

Frank had turned the lever to send the air-ship above the storm. But he
had not done this quickly enough.

The weight of the storm had kept it down. It was whirled about like a
top, dashed hither and thither madly.

The voyagers were hurled about the interior like puppets. Nothing could
be seen beyond the windows, nor could they even guess where they were
being whirled.

How long this lasted they were never able to guess.

Frank gave up all as lost. He had not the slightest faith that the
helices and masts would successfully resist the shock.

When the wind ceased for a moment its force, he expected to be dashed to
atoms upon the earth below.

But the unexpected often happens.

The storm departed almost as suddenly as it came. The wind died out, the
air-ship ceased whirling and the blackness disappeared.

The sun burst forth once more and all was again light.

Barney crawled out from under a heap of wreckage, and Pomp relaxed a
grip on the skylight frame.

Frank crept out from under the electric keyboard, and Captain Beere
appeared from the wine closet with a fragment of the door in his hand.

“Great whales!” he bellowed; “I’ve sailed the high seas in many a hot
typhoon, but I never saw the equal of this one.”

“We seem to be afloat,” said Frank, with an attempt to straighten a
crick in his neck.

Then he glanced out of the window and saw that the helices were
revolving furiously.

The air-ship was speeding upward and frost was forming on the windows.
But Frank quickly checked the helices.

The Spectre sank a mile or two very quickly and continued going down
until the gauge recorded an altitude of two thousand feet. Then all went
to the windows and gazed out.

The scene spread below was a startling one.

Instead of tropical forests or craggy heights there was visible nothing
but a mighty expanse of water.

As far as the eye could reach in all directions this was all that could
be seen.

Astounded, the voyagers regarded the scene for a time in silence.

Then Frank cried:

“On my word I believe we have been carried clean over the continent and
out to sea.”

“Begorra, it’s the ocean,” averred Barney.

“Golly! we must hab trabeled pretty fast,” declared Pomp.

But Captain Nicodemus studied the scene below critically and then said
decidedly:

“It is the big lake again.”

“What!” exclaimed Frank.

“It is the lake we’re looking for,” declared the mariner. “We have made
it at last, thanks to the storm.”

Frank was astounded.

“I have never heard of any body of water as large as this in Central
South America,” he said.

“Well, I can’t help that,” said the captain logically; “here it is.”

“You say this is the Transient Lake?”

“I do.”

With redoubled interest the aerial voyagers now gazed upon the great
body of water below.

None were disposed to dispute the old captain, and Frank, scanning the
horizon more intently, saw the faint haze of the shore.

“By Jove!” he exclaimed, “it is a big body of fresh water. However, here
we are. Now to recover the treasure. What course shall we pursue,
Captain Nicodemus?”

The old captain was much excited.

He walked up and down the deck, rubbing his hands and studying the
horizon.

At length he said:

“Steer west, skipper—due west.”

Frank complied with this.

The air-ship sailed westward for several hours. And still the great
expanse of water lay beneath. Frank reckoned it full two hundred miles
from shore to shore.

At length the western shore became well defined.

And now as they approached it, a curious thing was observed. The waters
of the lake seemed to have risen and flooded a part of the country
beyond, so that the water was full of trees and tangled brush.

Nicodemus was surprised.

“This was not the case when we were here,” he declared; “it is curious.
I can see nothing of the shore where we rested.”

“It is under water,” said Frank.

“Yes.”

“Well, can you guess at the locality?”

“Yes. Yonder peak was north by west. Here—here was about the spot where
we camped. The gold mound should be three miles or more in that
direction out in the lake.”

These facts established, the interest of all reached fever height. The
air-ship was held stationary over that spot.

A discussion was now held as to the best course to be pursued.

“Of course we can do no better than to wait for the disappearance of the
lake,” said Nicodemus. “That may happen at any time.”

“Is there any regularity to the event?” asked Frank.

“That I cannot say,” replied the captain. “We were here but a few weeks,
and the lake disappeared and reappeared only once in that time.”

“I have to suggest, then,” said Frank, “that we sail over to that
distant peak and wait there until some change comes.”

The peak in question overhung the lake, so that its disappearance could
be instantly noted.

The plan was adopted.

Soon the Spectre was resting upon this mountain height. A good spot was
found for the air-ship to rest.

Night now shut down rapidly. As all on board were intensely weary, they
retired early to rest.

Barney was left on guard. The night was black as Erebus.

The Celt sat in the bow of the air-ship where he could easily reach the
valve of the searchlight. There was no danger of his sleeping at his
post.

As the hours wore on, Barney relaxed his vigilance somewhat. It was past
the hour of midnight when an unlooked for thing occurred.

A curious sound came from the distance over the lake.

It was a strange sullen roar and a curious sound like the suction of
water through an orifice.

“Begorra, that’s a queer sound,” he muttered. “Phwativer can it be?”

He listened again.

Then he acted upon impulse and turned on the full glare of the
searchlight. The pathway of radiance shot out over the lake.

Barney had expected to see the shimmer of the waters.

But he was startled at the fact that they were not visible. The glare of
light showed only sand and rocks and weeds.

The pathway of radiance extended for fully a mile. But nowhere was water
visible.

“Tare an’ ’ounds!” gasped the Celt, “phwat the divil is the maning av
that?”

For a moment he was stupefied.

Then the realization of a startling truth dawned upon him. He sprang to
his feet.

“Mither presarve us!” he muttered, “the lake has gone an’ disappeared,
as the captain said it would.”

He started for the cabin to call Frank and the captain. But before he
reached the cabin stairs second thought impelled him to change his mind.

“Divil a bit,” he muttered; “there’s no nade av that. Shure, they’ll see
the thing fer thimsilves to-morrow, an’ to chate thim av their sleep now
wud be foolish enough.”

So he went back to his post.

He flashed the rays of the searchlight over the sandy bed of the
Transient Lake. Satisfied that there was no error, and that the lake had
really departed, he finally shut off the rays and abandoned himself
again to his duty of pacing the deck.

The night wore on.

Usually Pomp would come on duty to relieve him before the morning hour.
But this night Barney had agreed to keep the full watch, if Pomp would
do the same the next night, giving each a chance for a full night’s
sleep.

Toward morning Barney relaxed his vigilance and sat in the cabin
doorway, communing with his thoughts. It was just daylight when he heard
a movement below.

He saw Frank Reade, Jr., cross the cabin.

Instantly he cried:

“Och hone, Misther Frank, shure I’ve a surproise for ye. The lake has
gone intoirely, sor!”

This assertion created a sensation.




                              CHAPTER VII.
                         A STARTLING SURPRISE.


Frank gave an exclamation and started for the stairs.

“What is that you say, Barney?” he cried.

“Shure, sor, the lake has gone!”

Frank gave a loud shout.

“Heigho, Beere!” he cried, “the time for action has come. We are just in
time. The lake has gone out.”

“Eh—w—what?” sputtered the captain, rolling out of his berth. “You don’t
mean that?”

“Yis, sor, for I saw it wid me own eyes!” cried Barney, “shure, cum up
an’ ye kin see fer yersilf.”

The captain leaped into his trousers. Then he sprang up the cabin stairs
with Frank.

In a moment all were at the rail. Then there was an astounded silence.

Barney’s hair fairly rose on end. He gazed down below, then up at the
sky, then around him. Then he gasped for breath.

“Mither av Moses! Did ye iver see the loikes! Shure it has cum back
agin!”

Both Frank and the captain looked sharp at the Celt.

There below them was the sparkling surface of the lake. It presented
just the same appearance and was just as high as when they had last seen
it the night before.

“Barney,” said Frank, severely, “have you been drinking?”

The Celt stuttered and stammered and acted very foolish. But he managed
to say:

“Be me sowl, Misther Frank, it was gone, and not an hour since, sor. I
saw the sand an’ the rocks ’an’ all, sor!”

Frank and Nicodemus exchanged glances.

“What time was it when you discovered the disappearance of the lake,
Barney?” asked Nicodemus.

“About two o’clock av the mornin’, sor!”

“Tell us all about it.”

Barney did this. Frank and the captain listened with interest. When he
had finished Nicodemus said:

“Frank, there is no doubt of it. The lake went out and came back again
while we were asleep.”

“It must be so,” agreed the young inventor.

“Shure, sor, it’s thrue,” averred Barney.

“Why didn’t you wake us up and tell us about it?”

“On me worrud, sor, I niver had a thought that it wud cum back again,
sor, an’ I med out to wait until mornin’ rather than disthurb yez sleep,
sor.”

“Well,” said Frank, turning to Nicodemus, “it is hardly likely that we
could have accomplished anything anyway in that brief time.”

“That is true,” agreed the captain. “We will wait for another evacuation
of the lake basin.”

All that day the little party watched the lake. That night all sat up
until late to see if the lake would go out again.

But it did not. The next day brought no change, and thus several days
passed.

Still the same smooth expanse of water smiled upon them every morning.

There seemed no reason for believing that it ever would or could change
its basin.

A week passed thus.

Waiting and watching of course grew extremely monotonous. So after
awhile diversions were indulged in to pass away the time.

Hunting trips were made into the interior of the mysterious country.

Many strange things were seen, and once a glimpse was had of a mighty
cavern mouth far up in the hills, in which there were grouped a dozen of
giant men.

They were no doubt of the giant race which inhabited those mountains. It
seemed as if they must be fully seven feet in height and of enormous
build.

Our adventurers took good care to keep out of their way, for a collision
with them might not be pleasant.

Two weeks drifted by.

Then the first of a series of thrilling events occurred.

Nicodemus arose early one morning and walked around the far shore of the
lake.

He was pacing the sands abstractedly when his eye caught something in
the sand.

He paused with a gasp.

It was a footprint.

Moreover it was that of a man who wore a hobnailed boot. It could only
prove one thing.

Others were in the region and they were also from civilization. Words
cannot express the captain’s amazement.

“By Neptune,” he muttered, “how did they ever find their way to this out
of the way place?”

Then other queries came to him. Who were they? What brought them here,
and how many were in their party?

The captain’s curiosity was aroused.

Prudence bade him return to the air-ship and secure the co-operation of
his companions. But powerful curiosity overruled discretion.

He bent down over the trail and followed it. A little further on as he
had expected, the footprints met with others. For two miles he followed
them along the shore.

Then he turned an angle in the shore and came upon a startling scene.

This was a camp in the verge of a clump of palms. A dozen brawny men in
white shirts, loose trousers and sombreros, were sitting about smoking
and talking.

All the paraphernalia of a camp, with a train of mules, was behind them.
They had apparently been on the spot for some while.

Words can hardly express the sensations of the captain.

He stared at the scene, and then a sharp ejaculation escaped him.

“By Neptune! it is Jerry Dooley!”

His gaze was fixed upon a man who stood in the edge of the camp talking
with three others. He was a man of smooth face, shifting gaze and
stealthy manner. His appearance was that of a sea-faring man.

In him Nicodemus recognized one of the crew of the wrecked ship, who had
been a companion of his at the time that the lake came back, and as
Nicodemus had always believed, had drowned the entire crew left at the
mound of gold.

But there had been one exception. This was Jerry Dooley, the ship’s
steward. As fate had it, he had started himself right after Nicodemus
and Langley to go back to the camp on an errand. He was overtaken by the
waters of the lake, but dashed high and dry upon an eminence on the lake
shore.

Dooley had made ineffectual search for the camp, and not finding it,
finally started back for the Pacific coast.

After many hardships he reached it and pluckily put to sea in the ship’s
boat left there. Good fortune became his.

He was picked up by a coaster bound for Valparaiso and later got a berth
aboard an American ship of the line. Later he went into the navy.

But he had never forgotten the Transient Lake and the mound of gold. He
believed all his companions dead.

He succeeded in the navy and became a lieutenant, finally being retired
on half pay. Having the leisure time he now decided to carry out a
long-cherished desire.

This was to pay a visit again to the Transient Lake, and if possible
recover the buried treasure. He succeeded in organizing a party.

For a year they had floundered about in the swamps of Paraguay, and
finally crossed the wild ranges of Chuquisoca, and by a stroke of luck
found the lake.

And here they were encamped and waited for precisely the same thing that
the aerial voyagers did, viz: the disappearance of the lake.

This much Captain Nicodemus guessed. He was so excited at the outlook
that he inadvertently stood out in full view of the camp.

And just then Dooley, chancing to look up, saw him.

He gave a start and for a moment his face was livid. Then he started
toward Nicodemus.

The captain saw that he had betrayed himself, so he did not attempt to
conceal himself. Instead he advanced to meet the other.

“Dooley!” he exclaimed; “on my word, this beats all. I thought you
dead.”

“And I thought you dead, skipper,” declared the lieutenant.

“What—when—how—what are you here for?”

The lieutenant looked sharply at the captain. In that moment each
understood the other.

“I have come back for the gold in the bottom of the lake,” said Dooley.

The captain stiffened visibly.

“You have!” he exclaimed.

“Yes.”

“Do you expect to get it?”

“Not unless the lake again changes its basin.”

“Oh, umph! Let me see. Were not your companions drowned when the lake
returned that time?”

“They were.”

“But you—how did you escape?”

Dooley told his story. Then he asked sharply:

“But how did you get here? You have not been here ever since?”

“Hardly,” replied Nicodemus, quietly. “I have come here for the same
purpose as yourself, for the buried gold.”

“Ah!”

The two men gazed at each other. In that moment antagonism was
uppermost.

“I suppose that gold belongs to whomever can recover it.”

“Certainly not!” replied Nicodemus.

“Indeed!” said Dooley, somewhat staggered. “How do you disprove that?”

“Easy enough. My right to it is indisputable, and confirmed by the law
of prior discovery. The gold is mine!”

Dooley drew a deep, sharp breath. Matters were becoming strained.

“I disagree with you,” he said.

“Eh?” roared Beere.

“I do not agree with you.”

“What do you mean?”

“Just this: We have as much title to that gold as you. It was to have
been equally divided at the time. It shall be so now.”

“By what authority?” asked Beere.

“The authority of fair play. We have come thousands of miles, have dared
death in every form, and we are not in a mood to sacrifice the prime
object of our expedition.”




                             CHAPTER VIII.
                      THE ATTACK ON THE AIR-SHIP.


Nicodemus had expected something of this kind from the moment he had
first seen Dooley on the spot. He knew that trouble could not be
averted.

The latter rascal, for such he really was, was keen enough to read all
this in Beere’s face.

He was backed by a dozen hardy men himself, and he did not believe that
the captain was so well supported. So he was uppish.

Beere gazed steadily at the other for a moment after this virtual
declaration of war, and said:

“The largest share of that gold belongs to me. You shall have a fair
share. Is not that fair enough?”

“My friend,” said Dooley bluffly, “mighty little of that gold you’ll
see, I can tell you. It belongs to me. I claim it and shall divide it as
I see fit.”

“You will?”

“Yes.”

“You are a scoundrel!”

“Easy! I can make trouble for you. Back of me are a dozen faithful
fellows who will do anything. It will not pay you to dare me.”

Beere was now furious.

He made a menacing gesture.

“You atrocious rascal!” he gritted. “I’ve a mind to flog you!”

“We’re not aboard ship now!” sneered Dooley. “By the way, I am inclined
to believe that you are a dangerous character and ought to be taken care
of. Hey, boys!”

He blew a shrill whistle. The result was electrical.

Instantly the two men were surrounded. Dooley made a quick sign, and
heavy hands were laid on Beere.

The captain saw in that moment that he was in bad hands.

The rascally Dooley certainly meant him harm. The old captain’s blood
was up.

“Avast, ye dirty lubbers!” he roared. “I’ll keelhaul every mother’s son
of ye if ye lay hands on me. Mark my words!”

“Tie him up!” yelled Dooley. “Seize him there!”

Beere let out with two sledge hammer blows, which were like the kick of
a horse. A man went crashing down with each blow.

Then he was overpowered.

He was a strong man and fought furiously. But the odds were too great.
He was obliged to succumb.

Dooley was exultant.

“We have come too far, boys, to have any living man stand between us and
that gold.”

The others cheered. Then the villain continued:

“Tie him up to that tree yonder. First, I want to learn whether he has
any companions or not.”

Then he interrogated his prisoner.

“Tell me the truth, Beere,” he said, sternly; “how many companions have
you, and where are they?”

“You must learn that for yourself,” said Beere, firmly. “I can give you
no information.”

A curse dropped from Dooley’s lips. He took a step toward the prisoner,
saying menacingly:

“We’ll find a way to open your mouth. Before I’ve done with you you’ll
be glad enough to talk.”

But Nicodemus was not to be intimidated, though the situation was a
serious one for him. He refused to say anything.

But the villains organized a trailing party and followed his footprints
backward along the beach. When they had reached a certain angle they
looked up and beheld the air-ship.

It was an astonishing spectacle to them.

They managed to creep up near enough to the Spectre to see three men
aboard her, one of them colored, and then they returned to their camp.

It was easy for Dooley to decide upon a move.

“We must capture that hurdy-gurdy,” he said; “how in the world it got
away up there on that shelf of rock, I do not know.”

The villain did not know that the Spectre was an air-ship. He had
fancied it some sort of water craft.

He proceeded to arrange for a descent upon and the capture of the
air-ship that night. He felt sure of success.

Meanwhile Frank and Barney and Pomp had been attending to the routine of
their duties aboard the Spectre.

It was some while before the captain’s prolonged absence was noted. Then
Frank ventured to say:

“Do you think anything has happened to Beere? He ought to be here now.”

“Begorra, that’s thrue!” cried Barney. “Phwere did he go at all, at
all?”

“I done seed him goin’ along dat shore early dis mornin’!” declared
Pomp.

“Then he is surely in trouble!” said Frank. “We had better set out to
look for him. Come on, Barney!”

The young inventor picked up his rifle and flung himself over the rail.

“All roight, sor!” cried Barney, hastening to join him. Frank turned to
Pomp, saying:

“Keep a sharp lookout, Pomp. We will be back as soon as possible.
Remember, we’re in a dangerous country.”

“Yo’ kin be sure ob dat, sah,” affirmed Pomp. “Neber fear, sah.”

Frank and Barney were quickly on the beach. They walked on until they
came upon Nicodemus’s tracks. Then a startling surprise was accorded
them.

There were other tracks.

“By Jupiter!” exclaimed the young inventor in amazement, “what does this
mean? The captain has fallen in with others and they are civilized
also.”

There was nothing to do but to follow the trail. The result was that,
after two miles of patient tramping, they came upon the camp of Dooley’s
men just as the captain had.

Only they were wiser and kept out of sight.

This was a praiseworthy precaution. Moreover they were directly
astonished to see Nicodemus tied to a palm tree. A rascally-looking
fellow was just organizing a party of a half dozen armed men.

It looked as if they were going to venture forth upon some daring
errand. A startling thought came to Frank.

These men were certainly foes. Their capture of Nicodemus showed that.
Was it not their purpose to attack the air-ship?

Frank’s first impulse was to beat a hasty retreat and give them a hot
reception. But second thought changed his mind.

He thought of Nicodemus and saw that he needed succor.

“Pomp will be on the outlook,” he reflected; “he can easily fool them.
Our duty is here.”

So he whispered to Barney to crouch low in the bushes and await
developments.

They were not long in coming.

Dooley and five of his men, armed to the teeth, set forth to capture the
air-ship. This left five men in the camp with the prisoner, Beere.

Captain Nicodemus was in a very despondent state of mind. Just as
despair was getting a firm grip on him he heard a sibilant whistle at
his elbow.

It was so low that it did not travel beyond his ears. He turned his head
eagerly.

Then a whisper came to him.

“Don’t get discouraged—we are here to rescue you.”

“Good!” returned the captain. “You missed me?”

“Yes.”

“These fellows are our foes. They are led by Jerry Dooley, one of my
ship’s crew, who has come back here for the gold. They will give us
trouble.”

Barney had crept up behind the tree. He skilfully cut the prisoner’s
bonds.

“Now, sor,” he whispered, “whin the omadhouns ain’t lukin’ at all jest
slip into the bushes and cum wid us. Shure we must be afther gittin’
back to the air-ship.”

“All right, Barney,” agreed the captain.

And at the right moment he obeyed the suggestion. In the undergrowth he
joined Barney and Frank.

The trio ran hastily along the shore in the verge of the palms. They had
made several hundred yards before a loud roar announced that their
escape had been discovered.

Then came pursuit.

But they had start enough to keep out of the way. And right here Frank
employed a stratagem.

Showing themselves for a moment on the beach, the fugitives next dashed
into a copse near. Here they hid while their pursuers ran by them.

The danger was momentarily over. But the fate of the air-ship now became
the engrossing subject.

Would Pomp be sufficiently on his guard to repel the attack? But the
question was the next moment answered in a satisfactory manner.

The distant rattle of firearms was heard.

“They have made the attack,” cried Frank. “Now all depends on Pomp.”

“Niver yez fear for the naygur,” cried Barney. “Shure, he’ll fool thim
aisy enough.”

The rattle of the guns grew momentarily more rapid and clear. It was
plain that Pomp was giving them a hot reception.

But that the overpowering numbers would result in the capture of the
air-ship would seem certain unless the darky should employ different
tactics. And this he was shrewd enough to do.

Seeing that the foe were preparing to charge upon him, the darky acted
accordingly.

He sent the air-ship aloft instantly. His companions in hiding below
suddenly saw it appear just above them.

“Hurrah!” cried Frank. “Pomp was on his guard. The air-ship is safe.”

“It must be a surprise to Jerry Dooley,” said the captain.

“Bejabers, I hope the naygur will be afther seeing us,” cried Barney.
“It’s a foine pickle we’ll be in if he don’t.”

“Oh, I think he will,” said Frank. “Suppose we try a signal!”

The young inventor drew from his pocket a small battery and a steel tube
with a pneumatic chamber. He held this tube up a moment and pressed a
button.

There was a sharp ping, a recoil, and up into the air shot a small ball
of fire. Up it went, and exploding, fell in a shower of sparks.

“My electric rocket,” said Frank, explanatively. “I don’t see how Pomp
can fail to see that.”

“Divil a bit!” cried Barney, with exultation. “See, shure he’s got his
eye on us already.”

The air-ship came about and bore down rapidly to the spot where the trio
stood. Pomp was seen at the pilot-house window.

Down it sank as the darky saw them, and stopped not fifty feet from the
ground. Then the darky ran out and threw over the gang ladder.

“Huh! I’se drefful glad to fin’ yo’!” he cried with delight in his
voice.




                              CHAPTER IX.
                            A FUTILE QUEST.


It is needless to say that the three adventurers lost no time in
climbing up the gang ladder.

They were not a moment too soon.

Frank had just cleared the rail when men burst from a thicket and sent a
hail storm of bullets upward. They rattled on the steel hull of the
air-ship.

“Give it to ’em!” shouted Nicodemus, angrily. “They deserve it richly.”

Barney and Pomp grabbed rifles and rushed to the rail.

But Frank cried:

“Wait! Do not take life unnecessarily! We are safe just now. Let us have
a talk with them.”

Taking care not to expose himself, Frank shouted over the rail:

“Ahoy down there!”

The firing had ceased, and a voice—that of Dooley—came up in reply:

“Well, what do you want?”

“What do you mean by this unprovoked attack upon us?”

“You are our enemies!”

“How do you prove that?”

“Have you not come here to cheat us out of the gold buried under the
lake, and which justly belongs to us?”

“Neither of us are able to secure it just now.”

“Well, but we shall be when the lake recedes.”

“In that event, why have we not as much right to a share of it as you?”

“That is neither here nor there. We lay claim to the gold, and don’t
propose to divide with anybody.”

“What a pig-headed fellow,” said Frank, angrily. “I’ve a mind to teach
him a lesson!”

“I wish you would,” said Nicodemus, eagerly.

“Look here, my friend,” shouted Frank, “let’s have no nonsense about
this. That gold does not belong to you more than it does to us. For that
matter, if I should choose, I could prevent your securing one jot of it.
It is better for you to talk reason at once!”

“The only reason I will talk with you,” said Dooley, obstinately, “is
that you go on about your business and leave us and our affairs alone!”

Frank turned from the rail.

“There is no use to talk with that fellow,” he said.

“What shall we do?” asked Nicodemus.

“I will think up a plan,” said the young inventor, “in the meanwhile our
best plan is to sail over to the other side of the lake and wait for it
to recede. When it does we must be first on the scene where the gold
lies.”

“Good!” cried Nicodemus; “if they attack us there——”

“Then it will be time enough to retaliate!” declared Frank.

And so the matter was settled.

The Spectre sailed away across the arm of the lake and landed upon the
summit of a small hill. It would have required several days’ journey for
the Dooley gang to have made the circuit around by the shore.

So the aerial voyagers felt safe. But this new development had put a
different face upon matters.

However, if the lake should again recede, the air-ship could easily
cover the three miles to the mound of gold before the men on foot could.

Frank nor Nicodemus either cared for but a fair share of the treasure.
But the unfair and unreasonable conduct of Dooley impelled them to seize
the whole of it if they could.

Another day and night passed and yet the lake presented the same smiling
and smooth appearance. But that afternoon a curious thing happened.

Barney, who was on deck, noted a curious yellow cloud rising from the
west.

It mounted upward rapidly and soon had assumed angry proportions. The
sun was hazy and the landscape took on a sickly appearance.

“On my word!” cried Frank, “it looks as if we were going to have another
Andean storm.”

“Jericho!” exclaimed Nicodemus, “don’t say that. We had better anchor
the air-ship hereabouts if that is true.”

All watched the cloud until the whole western sky was obscured. Then
there was a distant rumble, lightning shot across the heavens.

The ground began to rock and pitch violently, trees and shrubs swayed
and were bent to the ground, the air-ship was tossed about like a
pebble, and no man could stay on his feet a moment.

“An earthquake!” gasped Frank.

“Bejabers, wud yez luk at the lake!” cried Barney.

All gazed in that direction and were dumfounded at the fearful spectacle
presented.

The lake was like one mighty whirlpool, and went swirling about like a
vast maelstrom. Its waters seemed to be receding every second.

Then the white sands of the shore line began to widen. Islands appeared
in its surface.

The truth was plain.

The Transient Lake, impelled no doubt by the earthquake, was about to
make one of its periodical disappearances.

Round and round swirled the waters. The ground had now ceased shaking.

But the yellow cloud continued to vomit lightning until it had passed
beyond the zenith.

The aerial voyagers now all pressed to the rail and watched the
wonderful phenomenon of the lake’s disappearance.

And, indeed, such it was.

Lower and lower sank the swirling waters. Suddenly they ceased their
commotion.

Then they became like glass. In a few moments they were like a mirror.

But rapidly now they sank. From the distance there came a strange noise
like water running through a funnel.

This was the sound Barney had remarked a few nights before.
Ten—twenty—thirty minutes elapsed, and then, as far as the eye could
reach, no water was to be seen.

The glistening sands and rocks were rapidly drying in the sunlight. The
Transient Lake had once more gone out.

How long it would remain was uncertain. Hours, perhaps, and maybe days.
However, this was the time for action.

“Now for the mound of gold!” cried Frank. “We shall have to get our
bearings from you, captain.”

“All right!” cried Nicodemus, studying the shore a moment. “North by
east, skipper!”

Barney started the air-ship forward in the direction indicated. Soon the
lake bed was beneath them.

As the Spectre sailed on over the sands, suddenly Nicodemus clutched
Frank’s arm and said:

“There they are!”

A body of men were seen rushing rapidly across the lake bed. They were
Dooley and his gang.

They could not help but see the air-ship, and even at that distance
fired a number of shots at it. But of course they were without effect.

Meanwhile the Spectre rapidly left them out of sight.

Three miles was a distance easily covered by the air-ship, and suddenly
Nicodemus clutched Frank’s arm and cried:

“There is the spot! Between those round hills! See it?”

Frank sprang to the keyboard and taking the lever from Barney, steered
the air-ship down between the little hills of wet sand.

A moment later the Spectre rested on terra firma.

And there was the stone mound for a fact. It was just as the party had
left it years before, so Nicodemus declared.

The captain was so excited that he hardly knew what to do.

He finally managed to procure a shovel and with Frank climbed over the
air-ship’s rail.

In a few moments the two men were alongside the mound.

The captain hastily dropped his shovel and climbed to the top of the
mound. He removed the stone cap and peered down into the place.

He remained in this position for a long time and Frank had thought of
speaking to him, when he suddenly arose.

His face, as he turned it toward Frank, was white as chalk.

“By whales!” he said huskily, “it is not there, Frank!”

“Not there?”

“No.”

“What do you mean?”

“The gold—the gold is gone!”

Frank was so overcome with surprise and dismay that for a moment he
could say nothing.

Then Nicodemus climbed down and faced his companion. His expression of
face was strange to see.

“Are you sure it is not there?” asked Frank.

The captain nodded.

“I could see every corner of the cavity,” he said. “It is not there.”

“What! Who could have removed it?”

The captain gave a sudden start and smote his knee.

“Why did I not think of it?” he exclaimed. “Of course the ship’s crew
did it while Langley and I were on our way to the camp.”

Frank’s face lit up.

“That is probably the truth,” he agreed. “Why didn’t we think of it
before? Doubtless they removed the gold just before they were overtaken
and drowned.”

“In that event——”

Nicodemus paused. Frank finished the sentence.

“What did they do with it?”

This was a question not easily answered. A close search of the vicinity
failed to disclose any evidence of gold.

If it had been deposited just outside the mound and left there, no trace
of it could be found.

On the other hand, it did not seem possible that the fated men could
have carried such a quantity of the precious metal any distance away
with them.

If they had, then it must be found with their bones somewhere in the
vicinity.

There was a possibility that in the intervening years some other parties
had visited the spot and carried off the gold. But this was only a faint
chance.

However, one fact was patent.

The gold was gone.

What had become of it? Certainly it could not have taken wings and flown
away of itself. The two gold seekers were completely mystified, and knew
not what to do.




                               CHAPTER X.
                             A COMPROMISE.


However, time was valuable.

Dooley and his men were momentarily nearing the spot. A conflict with
them must be avoided.

But Frank first suggested that a thorough search of the vicinity be
made.

This was done.

Every suspicious looking sand heap, far and near, was thrown over. No
gold was found.

It was speedily seen that the quest was destined to be like looking for
a needle in a haystack.

It was a reasonable supposition that the ship’s crew had removed the
gold, and had started for the shore with it when overtaken by the flood.
To find it now, or their bones, would require a long and patient search.

An hour had already slipped by. Dooley and his men could not be far
away.

Within a radius of several hundred yards a thorough search was made.

Then distant shouts announced the arrival of Dooley. The aerial voyagers
retired aboard the air-ship.

Then they tried in vain to consider the best and most logical move.

“Confound these chaps!” said Frank, angrily; “they are delaying us badly
and making it as difficult for themselves to recover the gold as for
us!”

“They ought to be given a lesson,” said Nicodemus.

“Ah, but I would have to redden my hands with their blood!” said Frank,
“which I do not wish to do.”

“That is true. But how are we going to dispose of them?”

“That is a problem.”

The Dooley gang had now come into view upon a sand hill near. There they
halted and regarded the air-ship in

The aerial voyagers every moment expected a shower of bullets.

But to their surprise these did not come. Dooley changed his tactics,
very likely upon the cardinal principle that discretion is the better
part of valor.

Down from the height came two men carrying a white rag on a gun barrel.
One of these was Dooley himself. When within speaking distance, they
halted.

“Ahoy the air-ship!” shouted Dooley.

“Ahoy!” replied Nicodemus.

“We want to parley.”

“Spout away!”

There was a moment of silence. Then Dooley resumed:

“I have reconsidered my determination of a few hours ago in regard to
the treasure. On the whole I believe a just division no more than fair!”

Nicodemus turned with a gasp to Frank:

“Well, of all assurance,” he exclaimed, “the scoundrel thinks we have
the gold, and, of course, is cunning enough to see that this is his only
hope of getting any of it.”

“He is a scamp,” said Frank, “evidently he thinks we are soft.”

“But that is his mistake.”

“Rather!”

“What shall I tell him?”

“Let me talk with him.”

Frank went to the rail.

“So you have really changed your mind, Mr. Dooley!” with sarcasm.

“Yes, I was a little hasty,” replied the villain; “I did not consider
the matter sufficiently.”

“Well, you probably think you are dealing with fools.”

“Eh?” gasped the villain.

“We have not the slightest idea of adhering to the terms suggested at
this late day.”

“What! You are not going to keep all that gold yourself?”

“We have not got it.”

Words cannot depict Dooley’s utter amazement.

“Not got it?” he repeated.

“We have not.”

“Why—who has then?”

“We do not know.”

“Then it is gone?”

“Yes.”

Loud and bitter curses broke from Dooley’s lips. He ran forward almost
to the air-ship’s rail.

“Then there has been some treachery at work,” he declared—“some
hocus-pocus game. I tell you there is the mound where the gold was——”

He turned suddenly and sprang upon the mound. A glance into the interior
satisfied him.

With livid face he descended. He came nearer to the air-ship’s rail.

“Where can that gold have gone?” he asked, huskily; “has some other
party been here before us?”

“I cannot answer that question,” replied Frank; “but one thing is
certain, the gold is gone. Our theory is that the ship’s crew departed
for the shore with it and were overtaken by the tidal wave on the way.”

“In that case the gold is with their bones.”

“Yes.”

A light of hope lit up the villain’s face. He averted his gaze, and
continued shrewdly:

“We must search for it.”

“Yes,” replied Frank, “that is the only way. But if we are to be foes
all the while——”

“No, no,” cried Dooley, craftily; “we will not fight each other. It
shall be agreed that whoever finds the gold there shall be a fair
division.”

“Will you swear to that?”

“Yes.”

“All right,” said Frank, sternly; “but now let me impress upon you one
fact. We have the best of the situation. If you attempt any treachery or
go back on your agreement, I’ll exterminate the whole of you. With my
air-ship I can do it.”

The rascal’s shifting gaze met Frank’s a moment. He could not help but
see that the young inventor was in earnest. So he said with an
affectation of servility:

“You need have no fear. I always stand by my agreement.”

Dooley went back to his men. Frank turned back from the rail and met the
approving gaze of Nicodemus.

“You handled him well, Frank,” said the captain, approvingly. “Nothing
could have been better.”

“Now we can search for the gold with safety.”

“Yes.”

Pomp took his position at the wheel and keyboard. Barney and Frank and
the captain were to prosecute the search.

Already Dooley’s men were at work. They were scattered in all directions
digging up the sand and following every sign of a trail.

Alighting from the air-ship, our trio of adventurers went forward.

Captain Beere’s hypothesis was that the men must have set out with the
gold in the direction of the camp. So they proceeded that way.

Long and persistent and careful was the quest. Finally the day drew to a
close.

As it was useless to attempt the quest in the darkness, Frank and his
companions returned to the air-ship. The others bivouacked near.

Our adventurers were extremely weary with their day’s work. As soon as
they had partaken of the hearty meal prepared by Pomp it was proposed to
turn in.

And this they did. Pomp was left on guard, to be relieved by Barney in
the early morning hours.

The darky paced the deck until long past midnight. Then he heard a low,
sibilant whistle come from the gloom. In a moment his rifle hammer rose.

“Who am dar?” he asked, sharply.

“Easy, nigger! don’t get excited,” came back the reply. “I’m only one of
Dooley’s men.”

“Wha’ yo’ want?”

“It’s durned lonesome up thar. Hev you got a chaw of terbacker?”

Pomp saw nothing in this request that could imply harm. The natural
good-fellowship of man to man warmed within him, and he was too generous
a soul not to reply.

“Reckon I hab, sah. Cum down yere an’ I gib yo’ a hunk!”

“Thank yer.”

A hulking form came down from the gloom to the air-ship’s rail. A grimy
hand clutched the tobacco.

“Ugh! that’s good terbacker. Reckon you ain’t found no gold yet.”

“Not a bit,” returned the darky; “don’ keer much fer sich stuff
mahself.”

“Jest my sentiments presactly. I wouldn’t give thet terbacker fer the
hull of it. Any objections if I sit up thar wid ye? I’m powerful
lonesome an’ wish I was back in Charleston.”

“You from Charleston, eh?”

“Yes.”

Pomp hesitated a moment. Yet he could see no harm after all. He was
armed, the other was not. Neither did he believe any treachery was
intended.

So the fellow, who gave his name as Jack Bowler, able seaman, came over
the rail, and the two had a social chat. An hour drifted by.

Pomp had waxed real friendly with his new companion and was pleased to
be able to have some one to help him while away the night hours and help
keep guard as well.

The fellow told many entertaining stories of life upon the high seas,
and all went smooth as a marriage bell for a time.

Suddenly Jack Bowler asked:

“What time are ye relieved?”

“About three o’clock, sah,” replied Pomp; “dat I’ishman he gib me a
chaince to sleep den.”

Bowler knocked the ashes from his pipe. Then he leaned over against
Pomp, and whispered:

“Look forward there! Don’t ye see somebody?”

Pomp turned his head in the direction indicated. Fatal move it proved
for him.

The next moment the world swam about him, and then he knew no more.

With terrific force Bowler had struck him over the head with a heavy
iron instrument. The negro’s head was proverbially hard, but it was not
hard enough for that.

In an instant Bowler was upon his feet.

He took a step toward the cabin and listened. Then he gave a shrill,
hardly audible whistle.

Down through the gloom from the camp above came a number of dark forms.
Over the rail they came.

One of them whispered to Bowler:

“You did your work well, Jack. The rest are in the cabin, are they?”

“They are, cap’n. We ought to make sure of ’em in their sleep. Dead men
tell no tales.”




                              CHAPTER XI.
                          A TREACHEROUS GAME.


But Dooley, for he it was, said sharply:

“No! You mustn’t kill one of them. I want them held for prisoners. I
have a purpose in view!”

“All right!” said Bowler, sullenly.

Toward the cabin door the interlopers crept. In a jiffy they had taken
possession of every part of the air-ship.

A terrible peril hung over the heads of our sleeping voyagers, and yet
they slept on, all unsuspecting it.

Frank Reade, Jr., was awakened from his slumbers by a savage clutch at
the throat. Strong hands forced him down and bound him.

The captain made a terrific resistance but was overpowered. Barney was
also served the same.

The aerial voyagers were thus all made prisoners in a twinkling. It was
a sudden turning of tables.

The jubilation of Dooley can hardly be described in words.

That the villain’s plans should have succeeded so well was remarkable.

He glowered at Frank Reade, Jr., saying:

“Well, now, ye can afford to be a little more civil with me, can’t ye?
Oh, I tell ye, Jerry Dooley is a hard man to beat!”

“You are a treacherous dog,” said Frank, angrily, “after making a truce,
to treat us thus.”

“All is fair in war,” quoted the wretch. “You are lucky to have been
spared your lives.”

“What do you expect to gain by this trick? We have none of the gold.”

“What have we not gained?” exclaimed the villain, exultantly. “Only
think—the wonderful air-ship is ours, to become freebooters of the skies
if we choose, and the inventor is our hostage.”

Frank smiled grimly.

“So you intend to make use of the air-ship?” he asked.

“Why not?”

“You will find it not an easy machine to manage, I think.”

“Ah, but that is why I spared your life. You shall manage it for us.”

“Indeed!” said Frank with anger. “You have reckoned without a host. I
shall do nothing of the kind.”

An ugly light shone in Dooley’s eyes.

“You won’t, eh?”

“Never!”

“Well, we shall see. You may be induced to change your mind. Make no
rash announcements!”

“Oh, for a moment of liberty,” muttered Frank, gnashing his teeth. “I
would pluck that rascal’s wings for him.”

“I wish you had it, Frank,” said Nicodemus; “is there no way we can turn
the tables upon them?”

“We can only wait and hope,” said Frank.

Barney was raving and raging furiously.

“It’s the stupid work of that naygur,” he cried angrily. “Shure av
they’ve finished him it’s small loss, afther givin’ us roight inter the
hands av the inemy, bad cess to him!”

Meanwhile the gold seekers had overrun the air-ship.

There was no part of it to which they did not penetrate. Everything on
board was subject to scrutiny.

No move was made, however, to change the position of the air-ship until
daylight came.

Then Dooley and several of his companions undertook to make an
examination of the electrical machinery.

It probably occurred to them that they might fathom its construction and
learn to operate the air-ship themselves.

But they were bewildered with all its intricacies and were speedily
obliged to abandon that idea. They finally went into the pilot-house and
began trifling with the keyboard.

And right here they made a mistake. For by an inadvertence Bowler
pressed the helice lever wide open.

What happened was a literal surprise to all.

There was a terrific, whirring sound, and up into the air shot the
air-ship. Bowler did not know how to press the lever back and could not
therefore check the craft’s ascent.

Both he and Dooley rushed out on deck.

They stared down at the rapidly receding earth, half in fright. As it
happened none of the other gold-seekers were aboard.

Dooley was angry.

“What the deuce did you do that for, Bowler?” he cried. “Now undo your
work lively.”

“I can’t do it, sor!” replied the sailor, as he tried in vain to reverse
the lever. It would not work.

“There is a way to do it,” cried Dooley, angrily. “Confound you for a
blockhead! We shall soon get to heaven at this rate. Let me see it, you
ass!”

But Dooley had no better luck! Still upward raced the air-ship. The two
rascals were in a state of terror.

Cold perspiration oozed from their pores and they trembled as if with
the ague.

“I didn’t mean to do it, skipper,” declared Bowler, aghast; “it was an
accident. Won’t we ever get back to the earth?”

“Not at this rate,” huskily declared the senior villain.

And now an alarming state of affairs ensued. The air grew so rare that
their eyeballs began to ache and cold chills seized them.

“Great Jericho!” gasped Dooley. “I can’t stand this. I’ve heard it said
that when you get a certain number of miles up in the air you can find
no air to breathe and you must stifle.”

“Great lobster pots!” wailed the terrified Bowler; “stop the thing some
way.”

“I can’t,” said Dooley, in despair.

“I can!” came a calm voice from the cabin. Dooley wheeled as if shot.

In that instant he saw deliverance, and wondered why he had not thought
of it before.

“Why, surely!” he exclaimed, “here is the man who made the condemned
flying machine. Why didn’t I think of it. Tell me, sir, how shall I stop
her ascending.”

“You cannot do it,” replied Frank, calmly.

“I can’t?”

“No, sir!”

“Can you?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Do it then, for the love of heaven. We shall perish in a few moments if
you don’t.”

“How do you expect me to do it, tied up as I am?”

Dooley hesitated. It was plain that he feared a trick.

“Will you agree——” he began.

“I agree to nothing,” said Frank, sharply. “You are two to one. Cut my
bonds quickly, or we’ll all strangle before we are aware of it.”

The villain hesitated no longer.

With a quick spring forward he cut Frank’s bonds. The young inventor
leaped to his feet.

In a moment he reached the keyboard. He quickly shut off the current,
and the air-ship fell.

Down she sank until the awful pressure on the lungs was removed.

All felt easier.

Then Dooley rushed into the pilot-house with a rope in his hand.

“Make no resistance,” he said, threateningly, “or you will die! You are
our prisoners!”

“I have offered no resistance,” said Frank, coolly; “but I ask that you
do not tie my hands again.”

“Why?”

“If you do, I cannot operate this air-ship, and that will be the worse
for you.”

This was really an evasive answer upon the young inventor’s part, and he
was casting about in his mind what move it was best to make to turn the
tables on his foe.

“Eh!” exclaimed Dooley; “is it necessary for you to hold your hand on
that brass shaft?”

“It is!” said Frank coolly. “See? if I take my hand off, it will stop
the air-ship!”

The air-ship did stop. But Frank adroitly shifted the lever when he took
his hand from it. This completely deceived the villain.

He hesitated a moment.

Then he drew a revolver.

He seated himself in a chair in the pilot-house door. He placed the
weapon on his knee:

“All right!” he said, coolly; “keep your hand on that thing, then. If
you take it off or make a move to play any gun game you shall die!”

For a moment Frank felt that he was worsted. The villain certainly had
the best of him.

Then an idea came to him.

There would be some risk to the move. But without some risk he could
hope to gain no victory.

While he held his hand on the lever he managed with his other hand to
connect a small wire with the dynamo connections and the steel framework
of the pilot-house.

Dooley leaned against the door frame, which was also of steel. Frank’s
hope was to suddenly send a current from the dynamos strong enough to
traverse the steel frame and shock he villain into insensibility.

So he carefully worked with this end in view. Dooley did not suspect a
thing.

He saw Frank arranging the wires, but imagined all the while that this
was only some mechanism of the air-ship which it was necessary to
regulate.

As long as he held the drop on Frank as he did he felt comparatively
safe.

But right here was his mistake. Had he ordered the young inventor to
stop twisting the wires under the keyboard the situation would have
changed in his favor. He failed to do so.

Hence his defeat.

It was all executed very swiftly and silently. The connection was made
and Frank turned to the villain, saying, pleasantly:

“We are half a mile from the earth now!”

“Jericho!” gasped Dooley. “What a drop that would be!”

“Yes, a comfortable one.”

“Eh? I should think it would be a terrible one. Would it not mean
death?”

“Possibly. That would depend upon the shock which would be something
like—this!”

Frank made the connection.

In that swift second the steel frame received the full force of the
dynamos. The villain could not know what struck him.

He sank down in a lifeless heap. Frank switched the current off, and
with a leap gained his side. He picked up the revolver and covered Jack
Bowler, who had come rushing out of the cabin.

“Great guns!” roared the sailor; “what’s the matter with the
skipper—eh—what’s this?”

“Hands up, on your life!” cried Frank, sternly, “or you’re a dead man. I
have the drop.”

One moment Bowler hesitated. His face turned ashen pale.

But he saw that the game was up. There was nothing for it but to
surrender.

So up went his hands.

“By the gunnels!” he ejaculated, “you have got to windward of us after
all. It’s good pluck.”

Frank made Bowler follow him into the cabin, while he cut the bonds of
Nicodemus and Barney. Then both prisoners were bound. It was not likely
that Dooley would come to very soon.




                              CHAPTER XII.
                         THE END OF THE STORY.


All this while poor Pomp had been lying insensible upon a heap of mats
in the after cabin, where he had been dragged and left.

But now the darky began to come out of his faint.

The blow upon the skull had inflicted no serious wound, and he must be
all right again shortly. But for a time he was sick and dizzy.

Frank and Barney found him and gave him some stimulants. He very quickly
recuperated.

Then he remembered his experience with Bowler on the deck. He felt
somewhat crestfallen.

But Frank said:

“It’s all right, Pomp; you meant well, but the fellow was treacherous.
Next time don’t get caught.”

“Yo’ kin jes’ bet on dat!” cried the darky. “I won’t trust nobody aftah
dis.”

It is needless to say that the aerial voyagers were delighted with the
result of the affair. Their deliverance was due to Frank’s shrewdness
and marvelous ingenuity.

The two prisoners were confined in the after cabin. But it was now a
question as to what it was best to do with them.

“Suppose we go down and talk with their companions!” said Nicodemus;
“perhaps they will make up their minds to behave themselves and let us
alone after this!”

“Very well,” agreed Frank. “We will try that.”

So down sank the air-ship. The gold seekers were seen grouped below in a
state of much excitement.

Frank went to the rail and opened a parley with them.

“We have your two leaders, Dooley and Bowler, as prisoners!” declared
the young inventor. “We want to know if you are going to play any more
treacherous games upon

The gold seekers were evidently astonished at the turning of tables in
so unexpected a manner.”

But finally they came to Frank’s terms and made fervid vows never to
trouble the air-ship or its party again.

Their spokesman said:

“To tell ther truth, mister, we don’t believe in ther story of ther
hidden gold an’ we’re sick of the whole thing. We’re goin’ back to
Para.”

“Very good!” said Frank. “I will set your leaders free upon that
condition.”

Then he went into the cabin and talked with Dooley and Bowler. They
readily agreed to Frank’s terms.

“I shall follow you as far as the shore of the lake,” declared the young
inventor; “if you dare to return I will drop dynamite bombs upon you and
destroy you.”

Dooley was satisfied.

He saw that it was of no use to attempt to cope with the voyagers.
Moreover, he had lost faith in the existence of the treasure.

He was in fact sick of the whole job and decided to return to America at
the first chance. So he said:

“I’ll do as you say. I’m quits on this thing. It’s an accursed country,
anyway.”

A short while later the two villains returned to their companions. They
at once started for the shore of the lake.

Frank decided not to accompany them, for he saw that Dooley was in
earnest.

As the villain dropped from the air-ship, Frank said:

“As an extra incentive, I will promise this, in spite of your bad
treatment of us. If we find the gold I will overtake you and give you a
fair division.”

Dooley hung his head and muttered abashed thanks. Then he and his party
were off.

The aerial voyagers continued the quest for the gold. All that day they
explored the sandy basin.

Toward night a find was made.

A number of human bones were mixed up with several hundred ingots of the
yellow stuff. It was taken aboard the air-ship.

Frank estimated its value.

“There is about thirty thousand dollars in the pile,” he said, “there
are twelve in Dooley’s party and four in ours. That will make about two
thousand each on a fair division.”

“They are not entitled to any of it,” snapped Nicodemus.

“Perhaps not,” said Frank, “but we have banished them from the search
and therefore ought to divide. At any rate I have promised it.”

“Oh, I don’t kick,” said the captain, cheerfully; “I am satisfied. It
was not the gold I cared for so much as to solve the mystery of this
lake.”

“And that we are now at liberty to do,” said Frank; “we will first
overtake Dooley and his men and divide. Then we will do a little
exploring.”

With this decision none found fault. So Frank took his leave of the
treasure basin.

The gold seekers were overtaken on the shore of the lake. They were
astonished at Frank’s generous announcement.

And when the gold was turned over to them Dooley wrung Frank’s hand and
said:

“You’re the only square man I ever met in my life. I like your style.
I’m going ter turn over a new leaf an’ do better.”

Then Dooley and his men set out to the eastward for the head waters of
the Paraguay where they had boats. None of the aerial voyagers ever saw
them again.

But one thing more now remained to be done to complete the success of
the trip.

This was to find the source of the Transient Lake and if possible
discover an explanation of its curious appearance and disappearance.

For full one hundred of the two hundred miles of its width the air-ship
sailed over the lake. They were now very near the centre.

And here a mighty circular bowl-shaped basin was seen. It had curious
galleries leading down into the earth.

These were cut out of the solid rock. This basin covered hundreds of
acres. The air-ship was here brought to a stop.

“Here,” said Frank, positively, “this is the outlet of the lake, if
anywhere.”

Nicodemus gave the place a critical glance. Then he said succinctly:

“Skipper, you’re right!”

And as fate had it, while they were watching the curious basin, a
strange sound began to arise from it.

It was a dull, distant, hollow booming, and then suddenly little
channels of water began to appear in the rock galleries.

“Begorra, it’s afther comin’!” cried Barney.

With interest the aerial voyagers watched the phenomenon.

Suddenly from an orifice in the centre of the basin there shot up to the
height of fifty feet a great column of water.

Then in an incredibly short space of time from all the galleries there
rushed forth great seething volumes, swift as the rush of Niagara.

And once full, the great basin overflowed in a second, sending a mighty
tidal wave across the country at race-horse speed.

Small wonder that the ship’s crew had been overtaken and overwhelmed.
Nothing could have outstripped that line of swiftly rolling water.

On all the wide earth Frank and his companions thought there could be no
phenomenon to equal this.

It was without parallel. Within the incredible space of an hour the
Transient Lake, tranquil and placid, was once more restored to its
basin.

The air-ship hung silently over it. Birds shot across its surface, and
small fish played in its limpid depths.

Above, the sky was calm and serene. A fierce tropical heat beat down
upon all.

Captain Nicodemus turned to Frank.

“Well, skipper,” he said. “What do you think of it?”

Frank drew a deep breath.

“It is a wonderful freak of mighty nature,” he said. “I am satisfied.
Let us go home!”

“Home!”

It was a magic word just now. The aerial voyagers had accomplished their
project, and had explored the Transient Lake.

They had yet a mighty distance to travel, and after all there is no
place like home.

So Frank turned the course of the air-ship eastward.

A farewell look was taken at the mysterious country and its Transient
Lake.

Then the air-ship sailed away.

It is a long journey from the Andes to the Atlantic.

It seemed an eternity of jungle, stream, and forest of hideous marsh and
barren plain ere the tossing waters of the stormy ocean were seen.

Then a course was shaped northward along the coast.

Stops were made briefly at Santos and Rio Janeiro. Then the South
American coast was left behind.

On sailed the air-ship over the West India Islands toward the coast of
Florida.

“Begorra, there’s no place loike the United States afther all,” declared
Barney, “savin’ mebbe ould Oireland.”

“Huh!” exclaimed Pomp; “yo’ allus hab to place dat lily bit of an island
befo’ eberyfing else.”

“Bejabers, an’ phwy shouldn’t I?” asked Barney, sharply; “ain’t it the
truth, to be shure?”

“If dey grow such tings as yo’ dar, wild, I kain’t say I fink it am
anyfing but a berry lily green spot on de face ob de yairth,” averred
Pomp, solemnly.

Barney was tired in a moment. He saw the fun lurking in the corners of
Pomp’s eyes.

He was all ready for a ruction and this assertion touched him off.

“So yez think it is only a little grand spot, eh?” asked the Celt,
rolling up his sleeves. “Well, grane is not hurtful to the eyes, I’ve
heard tell, loike the black yez get in Afriky.”

“Wha’ yo’ know ’bout Afriky?” exclaimed Pomp.

“What do yez know about Oireland?” spluttered Barney.

“All I knows ’bout it is jest wha’ yo’ hab tole me, an’ dat am enuff,”
sniffed Pomp. “Wha’ yo’ got yo’ sleeves rolled up fo’?”

“Begorra, I don’t allow any mon to insult me or me native land,” said
the Celt, hitching up his trousers; “here’s phwat backs me up.”

He shook a fist in Pomp’s face. The darky dodged, and the Celt made a
biff at him. Then they closed in an exciting encounter. Long and hard it
was, but as it would have been impossible to injure either one of their
tough skins and hardy frames by any dint of such pounding and wrestling,
they finally emerged from the encounter hardly the worse for it.

But the honor of each was satisfied, and their mania for wrestling as
well.

In due course of time the Gulf of Mexico was crossed, and one day
Captain Nicodemus sighted Key West.

The voyagers could not refrain from a jolly cheer at the sight of their
native land.

Soon the air-ship was sailing over the great swamps of Okeechobee, and
then swept over the great orange groves and plantations of the sandy
state. Georgia, South and North Carolina followed.

Along the Atlantic coast the voyagers journeyed until finally the mouth
of the Chesapeake came into view, and later the Potomac. Then they hung
over the Capitol city and steered west for Readestown.

The great journey was ended.

The Transient Lake and the mysterious country had been visited and were
now history in the minds of the aerial voyagers. They had also brought
home some of the gold.

All were satisfied and this was enough. Captain Nicodemus embraced Frank
gratefully for this, his last voyage. Then he returned to his home.

Frank Reade, Jr., Barney and Pomp are yet in Readestown. The young
inventor is studying up new things which we may hear from at some future
day.


                                THE END.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Read “THE GALLEON’S GOLD; OR, FRANK READE, JR.’S DEEP SEA SEARCH,” which
will be the next number (74) of “Frank Reade Weekly Magazine.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

SPECIAL NOTICE: All back numbers of this weekly are always in print. If
you cannot obtain them from any newsdealer, send the price in money or
postage stamps by mail to FRANK TOUSEY, PUBLISHER, 24 UNION SQUARE, NEW
YORK, and you will receive the copies you order by return mail.

                    These Books Tell You Everything!


               A COMPLETE SET IS A REGULAR ENCYCLOPEDIA!

Each book consists of sixty-four pages, printed on good paper, in clear
type and neatly bound in an attractive, illustrated cover. Most of the
books are also profusely illustrated, and all of the subjects treated
upon are explained in such a simple manner that any child can thoroughly
understand them. Look over the list as classified and see if you want to
know anything about the subjects mentioned.

THESE BOOKS ARE FOR SALE BY ALL NEWSDEALERS OR WILL BE SENT BY MAIL TO
ANY ADDRESS FROM THIS OFFICE ON RECEIPT OF PRICE. TEN CENTS EACH, OR ANY
THREE BOOKS FOR TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME AS
MONEY. Address FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, N.Y.

                               MESMERISM.

No. 81. HOW TO MESMERIZE.—Containing the most approved methods of
mesmerism; also how to cure all kinds of diseases by animal magnetism,
or, magnetic healing. By Prof. Leo Hugo Koch, A. C. S., author of “How
to Hypnotize,” etc.

                               PALMISTRY.

No. 82. HOW TO DO PALMISTRY.—Containing the most approved methods of
reading the lines on the hand, together with a full explanation of their
meaning. Also explaining phrenology, and the key for telling character
by the bumps on the head. By Leo Hugo Koch, A. C. S. Fully illustrated.

                               HYPNOTISM.

No. 83. HOW TO HYPNOTIZE.—Containing valuable and instructive
information regarding the science of hypnotism. Also explaining the most
approved methods which are employed by the leading hypnotists of the
world. By Leo Hugo Koch, A.C.S.

                               SPORTING.

No. 21. HOW TO HUNT AND FISH.—The most complete hunting and fishing
guide ever published. It contains full instructions about guns, hunting
dogs, traps, trapping and fishing, together with descriptions of game
and fish.

No. 26. HOW TO ROW, SAIL AND BUILD A BOAT.—Fully illustrated. Every boy
should know how to row and sail a boat. Full instructions are given in
this little book, together with instructions on swimming and riding,
companion sports to boating.

No. 47. HOW TO BREAK, RIDE AND DRIVE A HORSE.—A complete treatise on the
horse. Describing the most useful horses for business, the best horses
for the road; also valuable recipes for diseases peculiar to the horse.

No. 48. HOW TO BUILD AND SAIL CANOES.—A handy book for boys, containing
full directions for constructing canoes and the most popular manner of
sailing them. Fully illustrated. By C. Stansfield Hicks.

                            FORTUNE TELLING.

No. 1. NAPOLEON’S ORACULUM AND DREAM BOOK.—Containing the great oracle
of human destiny; also the true meaning of almost any kind of dreams,
together with charms, ceremonies, and curious games of cards. A complete
book.

No. 23. HOW TO EXPLAIN DREAMS.—Everybody dreams, from the little child
to the aged man and woman. This little book gives the explanation to all
kinds of dreams, together with lucky and unlucky days, and “Napoleon’s
Oraculum,” the book of fate.

No. 28. HOW TO TELL FORTUNES. Everyone is desirous of knowing what his
future life will bring forth, whether happiness or misery, wealth or
poverty. You can tell by a glance at this little book. Buy one and be
convinced. Tell your own fortune. Tell the fortune of your friends.

No. 76. HOW TO TELL FORTUNES BY THE HAND.—Containing rules for telling
fortunes by the aid of lines of the hand, or the secret of palmistry.
Also the secret of telling future events by aid of moles, marks, scars,
etc. Illustrated. By A. Anderson.

                               ATHLETIC.

No. 6. HOW TO BECOME AN ATHLETE.—Giving full instruction for the use of
dumb bells, Indian clubs, parallel bars, horizontal bars and various
other methods of developing a good, healthy muscle; containing over
sixty illustrations. Every boy can become strong and healthy by
following the instructions contained in this little book.

No. 10. HOW TO BOX.—The art of self-defense made easy. Containing over
thirty illustrations of guards, blows, and the different positions of a
good boxer. Every boy should obtain one of these useful and instructive
books, as it will teach you how to box without an instructor.

No. 25. HOW TO BECOME A GYMNAST.—Containing full instructions for all
kinds of gymnastic sports and athletic exercises. Embracing thirty-five
illustrations. By Professor W. Macdonald. A handy and useful book.

No. 34. HOW TO FENCE.—Containing full instruction for fencing and the
use of the broadsword: also instruction in archery. Described with
twenty-one practical illustrations, giving the best positions in
fencing. A complete book.

                           TRICKS WITH CARDS.

No. 51. HOW TO DO TRICKS WITH CARDS.—Containing explanations of the
general principles of sleight-of-hand applicable to card tricks; of card
tricks with ordinary cards, and not requiring sleight-of-hand; of tricks
involving slight-of-hand, or the use of specially prepared cards. By
Professor Haffner. Illustrated.

No. 72. HOW TO DO SIXTY TRICKS WITH CARDS.—Embracing all of the latest
and most deceptive card tricks, with illustrations. By A. Anderson.

No. 77. HOW TO DO FORTY TRICKS WITH CARDS.—Containing deceptive Card
Tricks as performed by leading conjurors and magicians. Arranged for
home amusement. Fully illustrated.

                                 MAGIC.

No. 2. HOW TO DO TRICKS.—The great book of magic and card tricks,
containing full instruction on all the leading card tricks of the day,
also the most popular magical illusions as performed by our leading
magicians; every boy should obtain a copy of this book, as it will both
amuse and instruct.

No. 22. HOW TO DO SECOND SIGHT.—Heller’s second sight explained by his
former assistant, Fred Hunt. Jr. Explaining how the secret dialogues
were carried on between the magician and the boy on the stage; also
giving all the codes and signals. The only authentic explanation of
second sight.

No. 43. HOW TO BECOME A MAGICIAN.—Containing the grandest assortment of
magical illusions ever placed before the public. Also tricks with cards,
incantations, etc.

No. 68. HOW TO DO CHEMICAL TRICKS.—Containing over one hundred highly
amusing and instructive tricks with chemicals. By A. Anderson.
Handsomely illustrated.

No. 69. HOW TO DO SLEIGHT OF HAND.—Containing over fifty of the latest
and best tricks used by magicians. Also containing the secret of second
sight. Fully illustrated. By A. Anderson.

No. 70. HOW TO MAKE MAGIC TOYS.—Containing full directions for making
Magic Toys and devices of many kinds. By A. Anderson. Fully illustrated.

No. 73 HOW TO DO TRICKS WITH NUMBERS.—Showing many curious tricks with
figures and the magic of numbers. By A. Anderson. Fully illustrated.

No. 75. HOW TO BECOME A CONJUROR.—Containing tricks with Dominos, Dice,
Cups and Balls, Hats, etc. Embracing thirty-six illustrations. By A.
Anderson.

No. 78. HOW TO DO THE BLACK ART.—Containing a complete description of
the mysteries Of Magic and Sleight of Hand, together with many wonderful
experiments. By A. Anderson. Illustrated.

                              MECHANICAL.

No. 29. HOW TO BECOME AN INVENTOR.—Every boy should know how inventions
originated. This book explains them all, giving examples in electricity,
hydraulics, magnetism, optics, pneumatics, mechanics, etc. The most
instructive book published.

NO. 56. HOW TO BECOME AN ENGINEER.—Containing full instructions how to
proceed in order to become a locomotive engineer; also directions for
building a model locomotive; together with a full description of
everything an engineer should know.

No. 57. HOW TO MAKE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.—Full directions how to make a
Banjo, Violin, Zither, Æolian harp, Xylophone and other musical
instruments; together with a brief description of nearly every musical
instrument used in ancient or modern times. Profusely illustrated. By
Algernon S. Fitzgerald, for twenty years bandmaster of the Royal Bengal
Marines.

No. 59. HOW TO MAKE A MAGIC LANTERN.—Containing a description of the
lantern, together with its history and invention. Also full directions
for its use and for painting slides. Handsomely illustrated. By John
Allen.

No. 71. HOW TO DO MECHANICAL TRICKS.—Containing complete instructions
for performing over sixty Mechanical Tricks. By A. Anderson. Fully
illustrated.

                            LETTER WRITING.

No. 11. HOW TO WRITE LOVE-LETTERS.—A most complete little book,
containing full directions for writing love-letters, and when to use
them, giving specimen letters for young and old.

No. 12. HOW TO WRITE LETTERS TO LADIES.—Giving complete instructions for
writing letters to ladies on all subjects; also letters of introduction,
notes and requests.

No. 24. HOW TO WRITE LETTERS TO GENTLEMEN.—Containing full directions
for writing to gentlemen on all subjects; also giving sample letters,
for instruction.

No. 53. HOW TO WRITE LETTERS.—A wonderful little book, telling you how
to write to your sweetheart, your father, mother, sister, brother,
employer; and, in fact, everybody and anybody you wish to write to.
Every young man and every young lady in the land should have this book.

No. 74. HOW TO WRITE LETTERS CORRECTLY.—Containing full instructions for
writing letters on almost any subject; also rules for punctuation and
composition, with specimen letters.




                             “HAPPY DAYS,”

           The Best Illustrated Weekly Story Paper Published.

                          ISSUED EVERY FRIDAY,

“HAPPY DAYS” is a large 16-page paper containing Interesting Stories,
Poems, Sketches, Comic Stories, Jokes, Answers to Correspondents, and
many other bright features. Its Authors and Artists have a national
reputation. No amount of money is spared to make this weekly the best
published.

             A New Story Begins Every Week in “Happy Days.”

                      OUT TO-DAY:      OUT TO-DAY:

                          Will, the Wagon Boy;

                                  OR,

                   THE DIAMONDS THAT CAME BY EXPRESS

                            By RALPH MORTON.

       Begins in No. 494 of “HAPPY DAYS,” Issued March 18, 1904.


                             PRICE 5 CENTS.

 For sale by all Newsdealers, or will be sent to any address on receipt
                              of price by

 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,      ❧      ❧      24 Union Square, New York.




                        THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76.

    A Weekly Magazine containing Stories of the American Revolution.

                            By HARRY MOORE.

These stories are based on actual facts and give a faithful account of
the exciting adventures of a brave band of American youths who were
always ready and willing to imperil their lives for the sake of helping
along the gallant cause of Independence. Every number will consist of 32
large pages of reading matter, bound in a beautiful colored cover.

                             LATEST ISSUES:

  90 The Liberty Boys’ Guardian Angel; or, The Beautiful Maid of the
        Mountain.

  91 The Liberty Boys’ Brave Stand; or, Set Back but Not Defeated.

  92 The Liberty Boys “Treed”; or, Warm Work In the Tall Timber.

  93 The Liberty Boys’ Dare; or, Backing the British Down.

  94 The Liberty Boys’ Best Blows; or, Beating the British at
        Bennington.

  95 The Liberty Boys In New Jersey; or, Boxing the Ears of the
        British Lion.

  96 The Liberty Boys’ Daring; or, Not Afraid of Anything.

  97 The Liberty Boys’ Long March; or, The Move that Puzzled the
        British.

  98 The Liberty Boys’ Bold Front; or, Hot Times on Harlem Heights.

  99 The Liberty Boys In New York; or, Helping to Hold the Great City.

  100 The Liberty Boys’ Big Risk; or, Ready to Take Chances.

  101 The Liberty Boys’ Drag-Net; or, Hauling the Redcoats In.

  102 The Liberty Boys’ Lightning Work; or, Too Fast for the British.

  103 The Liberty Boys’ Lucky Blunder; or, The Mistake that Helped
        Them.

  104 The Liberty Boys’ Shrewd Trick: or, Springing a Big Surprise.

  105 The Liberty Boys’ Cunning; or, Outwitting the Enemy.

  106 The Liberty Boys’ “Big Hit”; or, Knocking the Redcoats Out.

  107 The Liberty Boys “Wild Irishman”; or, A Lively Lad from Dublin.

  108 The Liberty Boys’ Surprise; or, Not Just What They Were Looking
        For.

  109 The Liberty Boys’ Treasure; or, A Lucky Find.

  110 The Liberty Boys in Trouble; or, A Bad Run of Luck.

  111 The Liberty Boys’ Jubilee; or, A Great Day for the Great Cause.

  112 The Liberty Boys Cornered; or, “Which Way Shall We Turn?”

  113 The Liberty Boys at Valley Forge; or, Enduring Terrible
        Hardships.

  114 The Liberty Boys Missing; or, Lost In the Swamps.

  115 The Liberty Boys’ Wager, And How They Won It.

  116 The Liberty Boys Deceived; or, Tricked but Not Beaten.

  117 The Liberty Boys and the Dwarf; or, A Dangerous Enemy.

  118 The Liberty Boys’ Dead-Shots; or, The Deadly Twelve.

  119 The Liberty Boys’ League; or, The Country Boys Who Helped.

  120 The Liberty Boys’ Neatest Trick; or, How the Redcoats were
        Fooled.

  121 The Liberty Boys Stranded; or, Afoot in the Enemy’s Country.

  122 The Liberty Boys in the Saddle; or, Lively Work for Liberty’s
        Cause.

  123 The Liberty Boys’ Bonanza; or, Taking Toll from the Tories.

  124 The Liberty Boys at Saratoga; or, The Surrender of Burgoyne.

  125 The Liberty Boys and “Old Put”; or The Escape at Horseneck.

  126 The Liberty Boys Bugle Call; or, The Plot to Poison Washington.

  127 The Liberty Boys and “Queen Esther”; or, The Wyoming Valley
        Massacre.

  128 The Liberty Boys’ Horse Guard; or, On the High Hills of Santee.

  129 The Liberty Boys and Aaron Burr; or, Battling for Independence.

  130 The Liberty Boys and the “Swamp Fox”; or, Helping Marlon.

  131 The Liberty Boys and Ethan Allen; or, Old and Young Veterans.

  132 The Liberty Boys and the King’s Spy; or, Diamond Cut Diamond.

  133 The Liberty Boys’ Bayonet Charge; or, The Siege of Yorktown.

  134 The Liberty Boys and Paul Jones; or, The Martyrs of the Prison
        Ships.

  135 The Liberty Boys at Bowling Green; or, Smashing the King’s
        Statue.

  136 The Liberty Boys and Nathan Hale; or, The Brave Patriot Spy.

  137 The Liberty Boys’ “Minute Men”; or, The Battle of the Cow Pens.

  138 The Liberty Boys and the Traitor; or, How They Handled Him.

  139 The Liberty Boys at Yellow Creek; or, Routing the Redcoats.

  140 The Liberty Boys and General Greene; or, Chasing Cornwallis.

  141 The Liberty Boys in Richmond; or, Fighting Traitor Arnold.

  142 The Liberty Boys and the Terrible Tory; or, Beating a Bad Man.

  143 The Liberty Boys’ Sword-Fight; or, Winning with the Enemy’s
        Weapons.

  144 The Liberty Boys In Georgia; or, Lively Times Down South.

  145 The Liberty Boys’ Greatest Triumph; or, The March to Victory.

  146 The Liberty Boys and the Quaker Spy; or, Two of a Kind.

  147 The Liberty Boys In Florida; or, Fighting Prevost’s Army.

  148 The Liberty Boys’ Last Chance; or, Making the Best of It.

  149 The Liberty Boys’ Sharpshooters; or, The Battle of the Kegs.

  150 The Liberty Boys on Guard; or, Watching the Enemy.

  151 The Liberty Boys’ Strange Guide; or, the Mysterious Maiden.

  152 The Liberty Boys in the Mountains; or, Among Rough People.

  153 The Liberty Boys’ Retreat; or, In the Shades of Death.

  154 The Liberty Boys and the Fire Fiend; or, A New Kind of Battle.

  155 The Liberty Boys in Quakertown; or, Making Things Lively in
        Philadelphia.

  156 The Liberty Boys and the Gypsies; or, A Wonderful Surprise.

  157 The Liberty Boys’ Flying Artillery; or “Liberty or Death.”

  158 The Liberty Boys Against the Red Demons; or, Fighting the Indian
        Raiders.

  159 The Liberty Boys’ Gunners; or, The Bombardment of Monmouth.

  160 The Liberty Boys and Lafayette; or, Helping the Young French
        General.

  161 The Liberty Boys’ Grit; or, The Bravest of the Brave.

  162 The Liberty Boys at West Point; or, Helping to Watch the
        Redcoats.

  163 The Liberty Boys’ Terrible Tussle; or, Fighting to a Finish.

  164 The Liberty Boys and “Light Horse Harry”; or, Chasing the
        British Dragoons.

  165 The Liberty Boys in Camp; or, Working for Washington.

  166 The Liberty Boys and Mute Mart; or, The Deaf and Dumb Spy.

  167 The Liberty Boys At Trenton; or, the Greatest Christmas ever
        Known.

  168 The Liberty Boys and General Gates; or, The Disaster at Camden.

 For Sale By All Newsdealers, or will be Sent to Any Address on Receipt
                     of Price, 5 Cents per Copy, by
 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,                      24 Union Square, New York

                      IF YOU WANT ANY BACK NUMBERS

of our Libraries and cannot procure them from newsdealers, they can be
obtained from this office direct. Cut out and fill in the following
Order Blank and send it to us with the price of the books you want and
we will send them to you by return mail. =POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME
AS MONEY.=

     FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.   ...190

         DEAR SIR—Enclosed find ... cents for which please send me:

     ... copies of WORK AND WIN, Nos.............................
     ... copies of WILD WEST WEEKLY, Nos.........................
     ... copies of FRANK READE WEEKLY, Nos.......................
     ... copies of PLUCK AND LUCK, Nos...........................
     ... copies of SECRET SERVICE, Nos...........................
     ... copies of THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76, Nos..................
     ... copies of Ten-Cent Hand Books, Nos......................

     Name .......... Street and No. ........ Town ..... State ...

[Illustration: WORK AND WIN]




                             WORK AND WIN.

                       The Best Weekly Published.

                  ALL THE NUMBERS ARE ALWAYS IN PRINT.

                  READ ONE AND YOU WILL READ THEM ALL.

                             LATEST ISSUES:

  178 Fred Fearnot’s Great Struggle; or, Downing a Senator.

  179 Fred Fearnot’s Jubilee; or, New Era’s Greatest Day.

  180 Fred Fearnot and Samson; or, “Who Runs This Town?”

  181 Fred Fearnot and the Rioters; or, Backing Up the Sheriff.

  182 Fred Fearnot and the Stage Robber; or, His Chase for a Stolen
        Diamond.

  183 Fred Fearnot at Cripple Creek; or, The Masked Fiends of the
        Mines.

  184 Fred Fearnot and the Vigilantes; or, Up Against the Wrong Man.

  185 Fred Fearnot in New Mexico; or, Saved by Terry Olcott.

  186 Fred Fearnot in Arkansas; or, The Queerest of All Adventures.

  187 Fred Fearnot in Montana; or, The Dispute at Rocky Hill.

  188 Fred Fearnot and the Mayor; or, The Trouble at Snapping Shoals.

  189 Fred Fearnot’s Big Hunt; or, Camping on the Columbia River.

  190 Fred Fearnot’s Hard Experience; or, Roughing it at Red Gulch.

  191 Fred Fearnot Stranded; or, How Terry Olcott Lost the Money.

  192 Fred Fearnot in the Mountains; or, Held at Bay by Bandits.

  193 Fred Fearnot’s Terrible Risk; or, Terry Olcott’s Reckless
        Venture.

  194 Fred Fearnot’s Last Card; or, The Game that Saved His Life.

  195 Fred Fearnot and the Professor; or, The Man Who Knew it All.

  196 Fred Fearnot’s Big Scoop; or, Beating a Thousand Rivals.

  197 Fred Fearnot and the Raiders; or, Fighting for His Belt.

  198 Fred Fearnot’s Great Risk; or, One Chance in a Thousand.

  199 Fred Fearnot as a Sleuth; or, Running Down a Slick Villain.

  200 Fred Fearnot’s New Deal; or, Working for a Banker.

  201 Fred Fearnot In Dakota; or, The Little Combination Ranch.

  202 Fred Fearnot and the Road Agents; or, Terry Olcott’s Cool Nerve.

  203 Fred Fearnot and the Amazon; or, The Wild Woman of the Plains.

  204 Fred Fearnot’s Training School; or, How to Make a Living.

  205 Fred Fearnot and the Stranger; or, The Long Man who was Short.

  206 Fred Fearnot and the Old Trapper; or, Searching for a Lost
        Cavern.

  207 Fred Fearnot In Colorado; or, Running a Sheep Ranch.

  208 Fred Fearnot at the Ball; or, The Girl in the Green Mask.

  209 Fred Fearnot and the Duellist; or, The Man Who Wanted to Fight.

  210 Fred Fearnot on the Stump; or, Backing an Old Veteran.

  211 Fred Fearnot’s New Trouble; or, Up Against a Monopoly.

  212 Fred Fearnot as Marshal; or, Commanding the Peace.

  213 Fred Fearnot and “Wally”; or, The Good Natured Bully of Badger.

  214 Fred Fearnot and the Miners; or, The Trouble At Coppertown.

  215 Fred Fearnot and the “Blind Tigers”; or, More Ways Than One.

  216 Fred Fearnot and the Hindoo; or, The Wonderful Juggler at
        Coppertown.

  217 Fred Fearnot Snow Bound; or, Fun with Pericles Smith.

  218 Fred Fearnot’s Great Fire Fight; or, Rescuing a Prairie School.

  219 Fred Fearnot in New Orleans; or, Up Against the Mafia.

  220 Fred Fearnot and the Haunted House; or, Unravellng a Great
        Mystery.

  221 Fred Fearnot on the Mississippi; or, The Blackleg’s Murderous
        Plot.

  222 Fred Fearnot’s Wolf Hunt; or, A Battle for Life In the Dark.

  223 Fred Fearnot and the “Greaser”; or, The Fight to Death with
        Lariats.

  224 Fred Fearnot in Mexico; or, Fighting the Revolutionists.

  225 Fred Fearnot’s Daring Bluff; or, The Nerve that Saved His Life.

  226 Fred Fearnot and the Grave Digger; or, The Mystery of a
        Cemetery.

  227 Fred Fearnot’s Wall Street Deal; or, Between the Bulls and the
        Bears.

  228 Fred Fearnot and “Mr. Jones”; or, The Insurance Man in Trouble.

  229 Fred Fearnot’s Big Gift; or, A Week at Old Avon.

  230 Fred Fearnot and the “Witch”; or, Exposing an Old Fraud.

  231 Fred Fearnot’s Birthday; or, A Big Time at New Era.

  232 Fred Fearnot and the Sioux Chief; or, Searching for a Lost Girl.

  233 Fred Fearnot’s Mortal Enemy; or, The Man on the Black Horse.

  234 Fred Fearnot at Canyon Castle; or, Entertaining His Friends.

  235 Fred Fearnot and the Commanche; or, Teaching a Redskin a Lesson.

  236 Fred Fearnot Suspected; or, Trailed by a Treasury Sleuth.

  237 Fred Fearnot and the Promoter; or, Breaking Up a Big Scheme.

  238 Fred Fearnot and “Old Grizzly”; or, The Man Who Didn’t Know.

  239 Fred Fearnot’s Rough Riders; or, Driving Out the Squatters.

  240 Fred Fearnot and the Black Fiend; or, Putting Down a Riot.

  241 Fred Fearnot in Tennessee; or, The Demon of the Mountains.

  242 Fred Fearnot and the “Terror”; or, Calling Down a Bad Man.

  243 Fred Fearnot in West Virginia; or, Helping the Revenue Agents.

  244 Fred Fearnot and His Athletes; or, A Great Charity Tour.

  245 Fred Fearnot’s Strange Adventure; or, The Queer Old Man of the
        Mountain.

  246 Fred Fearnot and the League; or, Up Against a Bad Lot.

  247 Fred Fearnot’s Wonderful Race; or, Beating a Horse on Foot.

  248 Fred Fearnot and the Wrestler; or, Throwing a Great Champion.

  249 Fred Fearnot and the Bankrupt; or, Ferreting Out a Fraud.

  250 Fred Fearnot as a Redskin; or, Trailing a Captured Girl.

  251 Fred Fearnot and the “Greenhorn”; or, Fooled for Once in His
        Life.

  252 Fred Fearnot and the Bloodhounds; or, Tracked by Mistake.

  253 Fred Fearnot’s Boy Scouts; or, Hot Times In the Rockies.

  254 Fred Fearnot and the Waif of Wall Street; or, A Smart Boy
        Broker.

  255 Fred Fearnot’s Buffalo Hunt; or, The Gamest Boy in the West.

  256 Fred Fearnot and the Mill Boy; or, A Desperate Dash for Life.

  257 Fred Fearnot’s Great Trotting Match; or, Beating the Record.

  258 Fred Fearnot and the Hidden Marksman; or, The Mystery of Thunder
        Mountain.

  259 Fred Fearnot’s Boy Champion; or, Fighting for His Rights.

  260 Fred Fearnot and the Money King; or, A Big Deal in Wall Street.

  261 Fred Fearnot’s Gold Hunt; or, The Boy Trappers of Goose Lake.

  262 Fred Fearnot and the Ranch Boy; or, Lively Times with the
        Broncho Busters.

  263 Fred Fearnot after the Sharpers; or, Exposing a Desperate Game.

  264 Fred Fearnot and the Firebugs; or, Saving a City.

  265 Fred Fearnot in the Lumber Camps; or, Hustling in the Backwoods.

  266 Fred Fearnot and the Orphan; or, The Luck of a Plucky Boy.

  267 Fred Fearnot at Forty Mile Creek; or, Knocking About in the
        West.

  268 Fred Fearnot and the Boy Speculator; or, From a Dollar to a
        Million.

  269 Fred Fearnot’s Canoe Club; or, A Trip on the Mississippi.

  270 Fred Fearnot and the Errand Boy; or, Bound to Make Money.

  271 Fred Fearnot’s Cowboy Guide; or, The Perils of Death Valley.

  272 Fred Fearnot and the Sheep Herders; or, Trapping the Ranch
        Robbers.

  273 Fred Fearnot on the Stage; or, Before the Footlights for
        Charity.

  274 Fred Fearnot and the Masked Band; or, The Fate of the Mountain
        Express.

  275 Fred Fearnot’s Trip to Frisco; or, Trapping the Chinese Opium
        Smugglers.

  276 Fred Fearnot and the Widow’s Son; or, The Worst Boy in New York.

 For Sale By All Newsdealers, or will be Sent to Any Address on Receipt
                     of Price, 5 Cents per Copy, by
 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,                     24 Union Square, New York.

                      IF YOU WANT ANY BACK NUMBERS

of our Libraries and cannot procure them from newsdealers, they can be
obtained from this office direct. Cut out and fill in the following
Order Blank and send it to us with the price of the books you want and
we will send them to you by return mail. =POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME
AS MONEY.=

     FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.   ...190

         DEAR SIR—Enclosed find ... cents for which please send me:

     ... copies of WORK AND WIN, Nos.............................
     ... copies of WILD WEST WEEKLY, Nos.........................
     ... copies of FRANK READE WEEKLY, Nos.......................
     ... copies of PLUCK AND LUCK, Nos...........................
     ... copies of SECRET SERVICE, Nos...........................
     ... copies of THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76, Nos..................
     ... copies of Ten-Cent Hand Books, Nos......................

     Name .......... Street and No. ........ Town ..... State ...




                             SECRET SERVICE

                 OLD AND YOUNG KING BRADY, DETECTIVES.

          PRICE 5 CTS. 32 PAGES. COLORED COVERS. ISSUED WEEKLY

                             LATEST ISSUES:

  184 The Bradys on Blizzard Island; or, Tracking the Gold Thieves of
        Cape Nome.

  185 The Bradys In the Black Hills; or, Their Case in North Dakota.

  186 The Bradys and “Faro Frank”; or, A Hot Case in the Gold Mines.

  187 The Bradys and the “Rube”; or, Tracking the Confidence Men.

  188 The Bradys as Firemen; or, Tracking a Gang of Incendiaries.

  189 The Bradys in the Oil Country; or, The Mystery of the Giant
        Gusher.

  190 The Bradys and the Blind Beggar; or, The Worst Crook of All.

  191 The Bradys and the Bankbreakers; or, Working the Thugs of
        Chicago.

  192 The Bradys and the Seven Skulls; or, The Clew That Was Found In
        the Barn.

  193 The Bradys in Mexico; or, The Search for the Aztec Treasure
        House.

  194 The Bradys at Black Run; or, Trailing the Coiners of Candle
        Creek.

  195 The Bradys Among the Bulls and Bears; or, Working the Wires In
        Wall Street.

  196 The Bradys and the King; or, Working for the Bank of England.

  197 The Bradys and the Duke’s Diamonds; or, The Mystery of the
        Yacht.

  198 The Bradys and the Bed Rock Mystery; or, Working in the Black
        Hills.

  199 The Bradys and the Card Crooks; or, Working on an Ocean Liner.

  200 The Bradys and “John Smith”; or, The Man Without a Name.

  201 The Bradys and the Manhunters; or, Down in the Dismal Swamp.

  202 The Bradys and the High Rock Mystery; or, The Secret of the
        Seven Steps.

  203 The Bradys at the Block House; or, Rustling the Rustlers on the
        Frontier.

  204 The Bradys In Baxter Street; or, The House Without a Door.

  205 The Bradys Midnight Call; or, The Mystery of Harlem Heights.

  206 The Bradys Behind the Bars; or, Working on Blackwells Island.

  207 The Bradys and the Brewer’s Bonds; or, Working on a Wall Street
        Case.

  208 The Bradys on the Bowery; or, The Search for a Missing Girl.

  209 The Bradys and the Pawnbroker; or, A Very Mysterious Case.

  210 The Bradys and the Gold Fakirs; or, Working for the Mint.

  211 The Bradys at Bonanza Bay; or, Working on a Million Dollar Clew.

  212 The Bradys and the Black Riders; or, The Mysterious Murder at
        Wildtown.

  213 The Bradys and Senator Slam; or, Working With Washington Crooks.

  214 The Bradys and the Man from Nowhere; or, Their Very Hardest
        Case.

  215 The Bradys and “No. 99”; or, The Search for a Mad Millionaire.

  216 The Bradys at Baffin’s Bay; or, The Trail Which Led to the
        Arctic.

  217 The Bradys and Gim Lee; or, Working a Clew in Chinatown.

  218 The Bradys and the “Yegg” Men; or, Seeking a Clew on the Road.

  219 The Bradys and the Blind Banker; or, Ferreting Out the Wall
        Street Thieves.

  220 The Bradys and the Black Cat; or, Working Among the Card Crooks
        of Chicago.

  221 The Bradys and the Texas Oil King; or, Seeking a Clew in the
        Southwest.

  222 The Bradys and the Night Hawk; or, New York at Midnight.

  223 The Bradys in the Bad Lands; or, Hot work in South Dakota.

  224 The Bradys at Breakneck Hall; or, The Mysterious House on the
        Harlem.

  225 The Bradys and the Fire Marshal; or, Hot Work In Hornersville.

  226 The Bradys and the Three Sheriffs; or, Doing a Turn in
        Tennessee.

  227 The Bradys and the Opium Smugglers; or, A Hot Trail on the
        Pacific Coast.

  228 The Bradys’ Boomerang; or, Shaking Up the Wall Street Wire
        Tappers.

  229 The Bradys Among the Rockies; or, Working Away Out West.

  230 The Bradys and Judge Lynch; or, After the Arkansas Terror.

  231 The Bradys and the Bagg Boys; or, Hustling in the Black Hills.

  232 The Bradys and Captain Bangs; or, The Mystery of a Mississippi
        Steamer.

  233 The Bradys in Maiden Lane; or, Tracking the Diamond Crooks.

  234 The Bradys and Wells-Fargo Case; or, The Mystery of the Montana
        Mall.

  235 The Bradys and “Bowery Bill”; or, The Crooks of Coon Alley.

  236 The Bradys at Bushel Bend; or, Smoking Out the Chinese
        Smugglers.

  237 The Bradys and the Messenger Boy; or, The A. D. T. Mystery.

  238 The Bradys and the Wire Gang; or, The Great Race-Track Swindle.

  239 The Bradys Among the Mormons; or, Secret Work in Salt Lake City.

  240 The Bradys and “Fancy Frank”; or, The Velvet Gang of Flood Bar.

  241 The Bradys at Battle Cliff; or, Chased Up the Grand Canyon.

  242 The Bradys and “Mustang Mike”; or, The Man With the Branded
        Hand.

  243 The Bradys at Gold Hill; or, The Mystery of the Man from
        Montana.

  244 The Bradys and Pilgrim Pete; or, The Tough Sports of Terror
        Gulch.

  245 The Bradys and the Black Eagle Express; or, The Fate of the
        Frisco Flyer.

  246 The Bradys and Hi-Lo-Jak; or, Dark Deeds in Chinatown.

  247 The Bradys and the Texas Rangers; or, Rounding up the Green
        Goods Fakirs.

  248 The Bradys and “Simple Sue”; or, The Keno Queen of Sawdust City.

  249 The Bradys and the Wall Street Wizard; or, the Cash That Did Not
        Come.

  250 The Bradys and Cigarette Charlie; or, the Smoothest Crook in the
        World.

  251 The Bradys at Bandit Gulch; or, From Wall Street to the Far
        West.

  252 The Bradys in the Foot-Hills; or, The Blue Band of Hard Luck
        Gulch.

  253 The Bradys and Brady the Banker; or, The Secret of the Old Santa
        Fe Trail.

  254 The Bradys’ Graveyard Clue; or, Dealings With Doctor Death.

  255 The Bradys and “Lonely Luke”; or, The Hard Gang of Hardscrabble.

  256 The Bradys and Tombstone Tom; or, A Hurry Call from Arizona.

  257 The Bradys’ Backwoods Trail; or, Landing the Log Rollers Gang.

  258 The Bradys and “Joe Jinger”; or, The Clew in the Convict Camp.

  259 The Bradys at Madman’s Roost; or, A Clew from the Golden Gate.

  260 The Bradys and the Border Band; or, Six Weeks’ Work Along the
        Line.

  261 The Bradys in Sample City; or, The Gang of the Silver Seven.

  262 The Bradys’ Mott Street Mystery; or, The Case of Mrs. Ching
        Chow.

  263 The Bradys’ Black Butte Raid; or, Trailing the Idaho “Terror.”

  264 The Bradys and Jockey Joe; or, Crooked Work at the Race Track.

  265 The Bradys at Kicking Horse Canyon; or, Working for the Canadian
        Pacific.

  266 The Bradys and “Black Jack”; or, Tracking the Negro Crooks.

  267 The Bradys’ Wild West Clew; or, Knocking About Nebraska.

  268 The Bradys’ Dash to Deadwood; or, A Mystery of the Black Hills.

 For Sale By All Newsdealers, or will be Sent to Any Address on Receipt
                     of Price, 5 Cents per Copy, by
 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,                     24 Union Square, New York.

                      IF YOU WANT ANY BACK NUMBERS

of our Libraries and cannot procure them from newsdealers, they can be
obtained from this office direct. Cut out and fill in the following
Order Blank and send it to us with the price of the books you want and
we will send them to you by return mail. =POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME
AS MONEY.=

     FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.   ...190

         DEAR SIR—Enclosed find ... cents for which please send me:

     ... copies of WORK AND WIN, Nos.............................
     ... copies of WILD WEST WEEKLY, Nos.........................
     ... copies of FRANK READE WEEKLY, Nos.......................
     ... copies of PLUCK AND LUCK, Nos...........................
     ... copies of SECRET SERVICE, Nos...........................
     ... copies of THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76, Nos..................
     ... copies of Ten-Cent Hand Books, Nos......................

     Name .......... Street and No. ........ Town ..... State ...

                               THE STAGE.

No. 41. THE BOYS OF NEW YORK END MEN’S JOKE BOOK.—Containing a great
variety of the latest jokes used by the most famous end men. No amateur
minstrels is complete without this wonderful little book.

No. 42. THE BOYS OF NEW YORK STUMP SPEAKER.—Containing a varied
assortment of stump speeches, Negro, Dutch and Irish. Also end men’s
jokes. Just the thing for home amusement and amateur shows.

No. 45. THE BOYS OF NEW YORK MINSTREL GUIDE AND JOKE BOOK.—Something new
and very instructive. Every boy should obtain this book, as it contains
full instructions for organizing an amateur minstrel troupe.

No. 65. MULDOON’S JOKES.—This is one of the most original joke books
ever published, and it is brimful of wit and humor. It contains a large
collection of songs, jokes, conundrums, etc., of Terrence Muldoon, the
great wit, humorist, and practical joker of the day. Every boy who can
enjoy a good substantial joke should obtain a copy immediately.

No. 79. HOW TO BECOME AN ACTOR.—Containing complete instructions how to
make up for various characters on the stage; together with the duties of
the Stage Manager, Prompter, Scenic Artist and Property Man. By a
prominent Stage Manager.

No. 80. GUS WILLIAMS’ JOKE BOOK.—Containing the latest jokes, anecdotes
and funny stories of this world-renowned and ever popular German
comedian. Sixty-four pages; handsome colored cover containing a
half-tone photo of the author.

                             HOUSEKEEPING.

No. 16. HOW TO KEEP A WINDOW GARDEN.—Containing full instructions for
constructing a window garden either in town or country, and the most
approved methods for raising beautiful flowers at home. The most
complete book of the kind ever published.

No. 30. HOW TO COOK.—One of the most instructive books on cooking ever
published. It contains recipes for cooking meats, fish, game, and
oysters; also pies, puddings, cakes and all kinds of pastry, and a grand
collection of recipes by one of our most popular cooks.

No. 37. HOW TO KEEP HOUSE.—It contains information for everybody, boys,
girls, men and women; it will teach you how to make almost anything
around the house, such as parlor ornaments, brackets, cements, Æolian
harps, and bird lime for catching birds.

                              ELECTRICAL.

No. 46. HOW TO MAKE AND USE ELECTRICITY.—A description of the wonderful
uses of electricity and electro magnetism; together with full
instructions for making Electric Toys, Batteries, etc. By George Trebel,
A. M., M. D. Containing over fifty illustrations.

No. 64. HOW TO MAKE ELECTRICAL MACHINES.—Containing full directions for
making electrical machines, induction coils, dynamos, and many novel
toys to be worked by electricity. By R. A. R. Bennett. Fully
illustrated.

No. 67. HOW TO DO ELECTRICAL TRICKS. Containing a large collection of
instructive and highly amusing electrical tricks, together with
illustrations. By A. Anderson.

                             ENTERTAINMENT.

No. 9. HOW TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST.—By Harry Kennedy. The secret given
away. Every intelligent boy reading this book of instructions, by a
practical professor (delighting audiences every night with his wonderful
imitations), can master the art, and create any amount of fun for
himself and friends. It is the greatest book ever published, and there’s
millions (of fun) in it.

No. 20. HOW TO ENTERTAIN AN EVENING PARTY.—A very valuable little book
just published. A complete compendium of games, sports, card diversions,
comic recitations, etc., suitable for parlor or drawing-room
entertainment. It contains more for the money than any book published.

No. 35. HOW TO PLAY GAMES.—A complete and useful little book, containing
the rules and regulations of billiards, bagatelle, backgammon, croquet,
dominoes, etc.

No. 36. HOW TO SOLVE CONUNDRUMS.—Containing all the leading conundrums
of the day, amusing riddles, curious catches and witty sayings.

No. 52. HOW TO PLAY CARDS.—A complete and handy little book, giving the
rules and full directions for playing Euchre, Cribbage, Casino,
Forty-Five, Rounce, Pedro Sancho, Draw Poker, Auction Pitch, All Fours,
and many other popular games of cards.

No. 66. HOW TO DO PUZZLES.—Containing over three hundred interesting
puzzles and conundrums, with key to same. A complete book. Fully
illustrated. By A. Anderson.

                               ETIQUETTE.

No. 13. HOW TO DO IT; OR, BOOK OF ETIQUETTE.—It is a great life secret,
and one that every young man desires to know all about. There’s
happiness in it.

No. 33. HOW TO BEHAVE.—Containing the rules and etiquette of good
society and the easiest and most approved methods of appearing to good
advantage at parties, balls, the theatre, church, and in the
drawing-room.

                              DECLAMATION.

No. 27. HOW TO RECITE AND BOOK OF RECITATIONS.—Containing the most
popular selections in use, comprising Dutch dialect, French dialect,
Yankee and Irish dialect pieces, together with many standard readings.

No. 31. HOW TO BECOME A SPEAKER.—Containing fourteen illustrations,
giving the different positions requisite to become a good speaker,
reader and elocutionist. Also containing gems from all the popular
authors of prose and poetry, arranged in the most simple and concise
manner possible.

No. 49. HOW To DEBATE.—Giving rules for conducting debates, outlines for
debates, questions for discussion, and the best sources for procuring
information on the questions given.

                                SOCIETY.

No. 3. HOW TO FLIRT.—The arts and wiles of flirtation are fully
explained by this little book. Besides the various methods of
handkerchief, fan, glove, parasol, window and hat flirtation, it
contains a full list of the language and sentiment of flowers, which is
interesting to everybody, both old and young. You cannot be happy
without one.

No. 4. HOW TO DANCE is the title of a new and handsome little book just
issued by Frank Tousey. It contains full instructions in the art of
dancing, etiquette in the ball-room and at parties, how to dress, and
full directions for calling off in all popular square dances.

No. 5. HOW TO MAKE LOVE.—A complete guide to love, courtship and
marriage, giving sensible advice, rules and etiquette to be observed,
with many curious and interesting things not generally known.

No. 17. HOW TO DRESS.—Containing full instruction in the art of dressing
and appearing well at home and abroad, giving the selections of colors,
material, and how to have them made up.

No. 18. HOW TO BECOME BEAUTIFUL.—One of the brightest and most valuable
little books ever given to the world. Everybody wishes to know how to
become beautiful, both male and female. The secret is simple, and almost
costless. Read this book and be convinced how to become beautiful.

                           BIRDS AND ANIMALS.

No. 7. HOW TO KEEP BIRDS.—Handsomely illustrated and containing full
instructions for the management and training of the canary, mockingbird,
bobolink, blackbird, paroquet, parrot, etc.

No. 39. HOW TO RAISE DOGS, POULTRY, PIGEONS AND RABBITS. A useful and
instructive book. Handsomely illustrated. By Ira Drofraw.

No. 40. HOW TO MAKE AND SET TRAPS.—Including hints on how to catch
moles, weasels, otter, rats, squirrels and birds. Also how to cure
skins. Copiously illustrated. By. J. Harrington Keene.

No. 50. HOW TO STUFF BIRDS AND ANIMALS.—A valuable book, giving
instructions in collecting, preparing, mounting and preserving birds,
animals and insects.

No. 51. HOW TO KEEP AND MANAGE PETS.—Giving complete information as to
the manner and method of raising, keeping, taming, breeding, and
managing all kinds of pets; also giving full instructions for making
cages, etc. Fully explained by twenty-eight illustrations, making it the
most complete book of the kind ever published.

                             MISCELLANEOUS.

No. 8. HOW TO BECOME A SCIENTIST.—A useful and instructive book, giving
a complete treatise on chemistry and experiments in acoustics,
mechanics, mathematics, chemistry, and directions for making fireworks,
colored fires, and gas balloons. This book cannot be equaled.

No. 14. HOW TO MAKE CANDY.—A complete hand-book for making all kinds of
candy, ice cream, syrups, essences, etc., etc.

No. 19. FRANK TOUSEY’S UNITED STATES DISTANCE TABLES. POCKET COMPANION
AND GUIDE.—Giving the official distances on all the railroads of the
United States and Canada. Also table of distances by water to foreign
ports, back fares in the principal cities, reports of the census, etc.,
etc., making it one of the most complete and handy books published.

No. 38. HOW TO BECOME YOUR OWN DOCTOR.—A wonderful book, containing
useful and practical information in the treatment of ordinary diseases
and ailments common in every family. Abounding in useful and effective
recipes for general complaints.

No. 55. HOW TO COLLECT STAMPS AND COINS.—Containing valuable information
regarding the collecting and arranging of stamps and coins. Handsomely
illustrated.

No. 58. HOW TO BE A DETECTIVE.—By Old King Brady, the world-known
detective. In which he lays down some valuable and sensible rules for
beginners, and also relates some adventures and experiences of
well-known detectives.

No. 60. HOW TO BECOME A PHOTOGRAPHER.—Containing useful information
regarding the Camera and how to work it: also how to make Photographic
Magic Lantern Slides and other Transparencies. Handsomely illustrated.
By Captain W. De W. Abney.

No. 62. HOW TO BECOME A WEST POINT MILITARY CADET.—Containing full
explanations how to gain admittance, course of Study, Examinations,
Duties, Staff of Officers, Post Guard, Police Regulations, Fire
Department, and all a boy should know to be a Cadet. Compiled and
written by Lu Senarens, author of “How to Become a Naval Cadet.”

No. 63. HOW TO BECOME A NAVAL CADET.—Complete instructions of how to
gain admission to the Annapolis Naval Academy. Also containing the
course of instruction, description of grounds and buildings, historical
sketch, and everything a boy should know to become an officer in the
United States Navy. Compiled and written by Lu Senarens, author of “How
to Become a West Point Military Cadet.”

                 PRICE 10 CENTS EACH, OR 3 FOR 25 CENTS.
 Address FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,             24 Union Square, New York.




                      FRANK READE WEEKLY MAGAZINE.

     Containing Stories of Adventures on Land, Sea, and in the Air.

                              BY “NONAME.”

             EACH NUMBER IN A HANDSOMELY ILLUMINATED COVER.

                     A 32-PAGE BOOK FOR FIVE CENTS.

All our readers know Frank Reade, Jr., the greatest inventor of the age,
and his two fun-loving chums, Barney and Pomp. The stories published in
this magazine contain a true account of the wonderful and exciting
adventures of the famous inventor, with his marvellous flying machines,
electrical overland engines, and his extraordinary submarine boats. Each
number is a rare treat. Tell your newsdealer to get you a copy.

                             LATEST ISSUES.

  19 Six Weeks in the Clouds; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Air-Ship the
        “Thunderbolt.”

  20 Around the World Under Water; or, The Wonderful Cruise of a
        Submarine Boat.

  21 The Mystic Brand; or, Frank Reade, Jr., and His Overland Stage.

  22 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Air Racer; or, Around the Globe in
        Thirty Days.

  23 The Sunken Pirate; or, Frank Reade, Jr., In Search of a Treasure
        at the Bottom of the Sea.

  24 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Magnetic Gun Carriage; or, Working for the U.
        S. Mail.

  25 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Electric Ice Ship; or, Driven Adrift in
        the Frozen Sky.

  26 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Sea Engine; or, Hunting for a Sunken
        Diamond Mine.

  27 The Black Range; or, Frank Reade, Jr., Among the Cowboys with His
        Electric Caravan.

  28 Over the Andes with Frank Reade, Jr., In His New Air-Ship; or,
        Wild Adventures in Peru.

  29 Frank Reade, Jr., Exploring a Submarine Mountain; or, Lost at the
        Bottom of the Sea.

  30 Adrift in Africa; or, Frank Reade, Jr., Among the Ivory Hunters
        with His New Electric Wagon.

  31 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Search for a Lost Man In His Latest Air
        Wonder.

  32 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Search for the Sea Serpent; or, Six Thousand
        Miles Under the Sea.

  33 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Prairie Whirlwind; or, The Mystery of the
        Hidden Canyon.

  34 Around the Horizon for Ten Thousand Miles; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s
        Most Wonderful Trip.

  35 Lost In the Atlantic Valley; or, Frank Reade, Jr., and His
        Wonder, the “Dart.”

  36 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Desert Explorer; or, The Underground City of
        the Sahara.

  37 Lost In the Mountains of the Moon; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Great
        Trip with the “Scud.”

  38 Under the Amazon for a Thousand Miles.

  39 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Clipper of the Prairie; or, Fighting the
        Apaches in the Southwest.

  40 The Chase of a Comet; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Aerial Trip with the
        “Flash.”

  41 Across the Frozen Sea; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Electric Snow
        Cutter.

  42 Frank Reade Jr.’s Electric Buckboard; or, Thrilling Adventures In
        North Australia.

  43 Around the Arctic Circle; or, Frank Reade Jr.’s Famous Flight
        With His Air Ship.

  44 Frank Reade Jr.’s Search for the Silver Whale; or, Under the
        Ocean In the Electric “Dolphin.”

  45 Frank Reade, Jr., and His Electric Car; or, Outwitting a
        Desperate Gang.

  46 To the End of the Earth; or, Frank Reade Jr.’s Great Mid-Air
        Flight.

  47 The Missing Island; or, Frank Reade Jr.’s Voyage Under the Sea.

  48 Frank Reade, Jr., In Central India; or, the Search for the Lost
        Savants.

  49 Frank Reade, Jr. Fighting the Terror of the Coast.

  50 100 Miles Below the Surface of the Sea; or, The Marvelous Trip of
        Frank Reade, Jr.

  51 Abandoned in Alaska; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Thrilling Search for
        a Lost Gold Claim.

  52 Frank Reade, Jr.’s Twenty-Five Thousand Mile Trip In the Air.

  53 Under the Yellow Sea; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Search for the Cave
        of Pearls.

  54 From the Nile to the Niger; or, Frank Reade, Jr. Lost In the
        Soudan.

  55 The Electric Island; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Search for the
        Greatest Wonder on Earth.

  56 The Underground Sea; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Subterranean Cruise.

  57 From Tropic to Tropic; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Tour With His
        Bicycle Car.

  58 Lost In a Comet’s Tail; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Strange Adventure
        With His Air-ship.

  59 Under Four Oceans; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Submarine Chase of a
        “Sea Devil.”

  60 The Mysterious Mirage; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Desert Search for a
        Secret City.

  61 Latitude 90 Degrees; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Most Wonderful
        Mid-Air Flight.

  62 Lost In the Great Undertow; or Frank Reade, Jr.’s Submarine
        Cruise In the Gulf Stream.

  63 Across Australia with Frank Reade, Jr.; or, In His New Electric
        Car.

  64 Over Two Continents; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Long Distance Flight.

  65 Under the Equator; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Greatest Submarine
        Voyage.

  66 Astray in the Selvas; or, The Wild Experiences of Frank Reade,
        Jr., in South America.

  67 In the Wild Man’s Land; or, With Frank Reade, Jr., in the Heart
        of Australia.

  68 From Coast to Coast; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Trip Across Africa.

  69 Beyond the Gold Coast; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Overland Trip.

  70 Across the Earth; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Latest Trip With His New
        Air Ship.

  71 Six Weeks Buried in a Deep Sea Cave; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Great
        Submarine Search.

  72 Across the Desert of Fire; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Marvelous Trip
        in a Strange Country.

  73 The Transient Lake; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Adventures in a
        Mysterious Country.

  74 The Galleon’s Gold; or, Frank Reade, Jr.’s Deep Sea Search.

 For Sale By All Newsdealers, or will be Sent to Any Address on Receipt
                     of Price, 5 Cents per Copy, by
 FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,                     24 Union Square, New York.

                      IF YOU WANT ANY BACK NUMBERS

of our Libraries and cannot procure them from newsdealers, they can be
obtained from this office direct. Cut out and fill in the following
Order Blank and send it to us with the price of the books you want and
we will send them to you by return mail. =POSTAGE STAMPS TAKEN THE SAME
AS MONEY.=

     FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 24 Union Square, New York.   ...190

         DEAR SIR—Enclosed find ... cents for which please send me:

     ... copies of WORK AND WIN, Nos.............................
     ... copies of WILD WEST WEEKLY, Nos.........................
     ... copies of FRANK READE WEEKLY, Nos.......................
     ... copies of PLUCK AND LUCK, Nos...........................
     ... copies of SECRET SERVICE, Nos...........................
     ... copies of THE LIBERTY BOYS OF ’76, Nos..................
     ... copies of Ten-Cent Hand Books, Nos......................

     Name .......... Street and No. ........ Town ..... State ...

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Added Table of Contents.
 2. Moved advertising from inside front cover to before inside back
      cover.
 3. Silently corrected typographical errors.
 4. Retained anachronistic and non-standard spellings as printed.
 5. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 6. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Transient Lake, by Luis Senarens

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TRANSIENT LAKE ***

***** This file should be named 55556-0.txt or 55556-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/5/5/5/55556/

Produced by Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

